---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-01-05T19:30:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Francois Schwicker <[bubi4919@yahoo.com](mailto://bubi4919@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

>> nasin kepeken sina pi toki pona li pona mute tawa mi.
> taso mi ken ala sona e ijo. mi wile toki e ni kepeken
> toki Inli pona mi (in my plain English) :
>> All verbs in the infinitive can be nouns. So they can
> be used as nouns, too.I suppose this is talking about English, since --
 however peculiar the tp systemis --
 it does nothave infinitives --
 nor genitives.
> In nominal constructions, nouns can be used as
> genitives, that is, de facto, as adjectives :
> tomo telo : bathroom or bathing room
>> Adjectives can be used as nouns (mi pana e pona tawa
> sina), or as verbs (mi pona)
>> and so on ...As far as I can figure out, the important distinctions are local: modifier /modifed, transitive /intransitive, prepositional and maybe a few more. To be sure, some words neveroccur in somecategories (so far as we know now): "oko" is never either transitive orintransitive but alwaysmerely predicative (OK, so that could be called intransitive), "ilo" is (so far)never used as apreposition, and so on.
>>> So, my question is, are these categories (nouns,
> verbs, modifiers, ...) really accurate ?
>> On the other hand, they must nevertheless have a
> specific function, since in Bliss Symbols, e. g.,
> there is only one symbol for "oko" and "lukin", resp.
> for "uta" and "toki" and possibly for "ilo" and
> "kepeken", tooBliss Symbols? This sounds like another semantic primes list that I don't knowabout (will Googlelater). I have wondered about both the fairly obvious reduplications of thissort --
and about somethings which appear to be missing or available only in complicated, unZipfy,ways --
 which alsorely on things that the tp ethos does not have (doing hand side and directionsby referring tobooks or maps, say).
> jan Kanso
>> ---
 [MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com) wrote:

>> 
> If you find or come up with something not covered in
> 
> the grammar or that you
> 
> think is wrong, let me know and I'll consider
> 
> changing the grammar.
> 
>> 
> jan Setepo / stevo
> 
>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> Do You Yahoo!?
> Tired of spam? Yahoo! Mail has the best spam protection around
> [http://mail.yahoo.com](http://mail.yahoo.com)\
>