---
author: "MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com"
date: 2007-01-06T09:46:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
In a message dated 1/6/2007 5:11:39 AM Central Standard Time, [bubi4919@yahoo.com](mailto://bubi4919@yahoo.com) writes:
The official words list says that "jo" and "ken" canbe nouns, too. But "awen" and "kepeken" are not listedas nouns. Nevertheless, I bet You will easilyunderstand the following sentences, in which these twowords are used as nouns :awen pi anpa telo li suli mute tawa jan.kepeken pi ilo ni li musi mute.In my view, every use in any language is correct if itcan be understood without special effort by thelistener or the reader ! The first one I don't understand; the second one I do.You and I have polar opinions about grammatical correctness.  I believe that many ungrammatical phrases can still be easily understood.  That they can be understood easily doesn't make them grammatical or correct.An example from English:  It's becoming commonplace to hear subject pronouns, especially "I", in object positions (especially with another noun or pronoun): e.g., "between you and I" (should be "between you and me").  This is ungrammatical, although done by native speakers.  Perhaps it is becoming correct, since languages are always changing, but at the moment it's ungrammatical.  Another example:  young children typically speak ungrammatically when they are learning their first language.  Yet they are usually easy to understand.  "Correct" when applied to language has a broader meaning than just "grammatical".  But 'grammatical' means following the rules of grammar.  There are several words in Toki Pona that I think should have expanded definitions to include other parts of speech.  "open" as an adjective is one.jan Setepo / stevo