---
author: "yves_prudhomme"
date: 2002-10-09T23:20:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Howdy. I'm a toki pona newbie, but I've been reading the Web site andI like it a lot.I got to tokipona.org from the model languages Web site,[http://www.langmaker.com/](http://www.langmaker.com/) . They've got a thing there where as asample of a new language, they translate the text of Genesis 11:9 (theTower of Babel story) into the language. I noticed there wasn't asample of toki pona, so with my rich several hours of experience, Idecided to give it a shot. Here it is:---
8<---
\[Verse 1 And all the land was one language and few words.\]tenpo ni la ma ale li jo e toki weka. nimi mute ala li lon.\[Verse 2 And it was when \[they\] travelled from Qedem/the east, \[they\]found a plain in the land \[of\] Shin\`ar and \[they\] dwelt there.\]jan mute li kama tan ma Keden. ona li lukin e ma supa lon maSinala. lon ma la ona li tomo.\[Verse 3 And \[one\] man said to his friend, "Come! We'll brick bricksand burn to a burning." And the brick was to them (to) stone, and theclay was to them (to) material.\]mije li toki tawa jan pona ona. mije ni li toki e: "o sina kama! o mien sina li pali e ijo kiwen telo mute, li seli e ona." kiwen seli nili kiwen wawa tawa ona. ma telo li ilo kepeken tawa ona.\[Verse 4 And they said, "Come! We'll build for us a city and a towerand its head \[the tower's\] in the sky, and we'll make for us a name,lest we be scattered on the face of all the earth."\]ona li toki e: "o sina kama! o mi en sina li pali e ma tomo, li pali etomo palisa suli suli. o lawa pi tomo palisa ni li lon sewi. o mi ensina li kama lawa, li jo e nimi lawa. mi wile ala mute lon selo pi maale."\[Verse 5 And YHWH descended to see the city and the tower which thesons of Man (had) built.\]jan sewi jawe li anpa. ona li wile lukin e ma tomo en tomo palisa. janpi ma anpa li pali e ijo ni.\[Verse 6 And YHWH said, "Behold, one nation, and \[there is\] onelanguage for all of them, and this they have begun to do. And now, itwill not be denied from them, all which they \[will\] plot to do.\]jan sewi jawe li toki e: "o sina lukin! kulupu ma li wan. ona ale lijo e toki kin wan. ona li kama pali e ni. tenpo la pali pi wile ona likin kama."\[Verse 7 "Come! We will descend and we will confuse their languagethere, that \[they\] will not hear \[one\] man the language \[of\] hisfriend."\]"o mi mute kama! mi mute li anpa, li nasa e toki ona. tenpo la jan likute ala e toki pi jan pona."\[Verse 8 And YHWH scattered them from there on the face of all theearth, and they ceased to build the city.\]tenpo la jan sewi jawe li mute jan ni tawa selo pi ma ale. ona kamapali ala e ma tomo.\[Verse 9 Therefore called its name "Babel," because there YHWHconfused the language of all the earth, and from there YHWH scatteredthem on the face of all the earth.\]tan ni la nimi pi ma tomo li "papeli." ma ni la jan sewi jawe li nasae toki pi jan ale.---
8<---
Any commentary welcome.~YP