---
author: "Sam Chapman"
date: 2008-08-15T11:18:10+00:00
nestinglevel: 2
---
I would have thought any tribe or primitive society would need far greater ability to describe plants and animals. I see it as being a "spiritual" language of formal languag not an everyday one.  
  
\--- On Sun, 10/8/08, andrew49097 <\*\*\*@yahoo.com> wrote:  
From: andrew49097 <\*\*\*@yahoo.com>  
Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: Toki-Pona-speaking culture  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Date: Sunday, 10 August, 2008, 3:30 AM  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
It's funny, I imagine something simular, yet opposite of a desert. I  
  
imagine if toki pona were to have occurred naturally, it would have  
  
been on an isolated tropical island. Sort of like a desert in the sense  
  
that it is isolated and such. Then again, I could have just thought  
  
that sense the language resembles something like Hawai'ian or Japanese.  
  
Either way, toki pona would have been spoken by a close knit group or  
  
tribe as you said. And, in fact isn't it spoken by a "small group" at  
  
the time being? Interesting thought.  
  
  
  
jan Anti (Andy)  

> [_Post by galactonerd_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post1)  
> What are your thoughts on what a Toki-Pona-apeaking culture might be  
> like? I imagine they would live in a desert, with a lifestyle  
> 

somewhat  

> [_Post by galactonerd_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post1)  
> like the Kalahari bush tribes, because the small vocabulary suggests  
> that there aren't a whole lot of things to name. I would also guess  
> that it started out as some kind of creole, because of its lack of  
> metaphorical language.  
> Any other ideas?  
> jan Sosuwa  
> 

Send instant messages to your online friends http://uk.messenger.yahoo.com