---
author: "galactonerd"
date: 2008-08-20 23:49:06 UTC
nestinglevel: 3
---
Well, my reasoning is that since there's only one word covering all  
liquids ("telo" instead of water, rain, ocean, etc.), it must be a  
desert, with the occasional oasis (hence the existence of the  
word "kala"--fish live in these waters); since there's only word for  
the whole plant kingdom and one word for each class of animals, there  
must not be a whole lot of animals or plants in that region, and  
those that are there look pretty much alike (that is, all mammals  
look alike, all reptiles look alike, etc.); since there are words for  
hot and cold, the desert they live in must get really hot during the  
day and really cold at night, and all they have for protection are  
tents called "tomo."  
  
Those are my thoughts on the matter, anyway.  
  
jan Sosuwa  

> [_Post by Sam Chapman_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post5)  
> I would have thought any tribe or primitive society would need far  
> 

greater ability to describe plants and animals. I see it as being  
a "spiritual" language of formal languag not an everyday one.  

> [_Post by Sam Chapman_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post5)  
> Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: Toki-Pona-speaking culture  
> Date: Sunday, 10 August, 2008, 3:30 AM  
> It's funny, I imagine something simular, yet opposite of a desert. I  
> imagine if toki pona were to have occurred naturally, it would have  
> been on an isolated tropical island. Sort of like a desert in the sense  
> that it is isolated and such. Then again, I could have just thought  
> that sense the language resembles something like Hawai'ian or  
> 

Japanese.  

> [_Post by Sam Chapman_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post5)  
> Either way, toki pona would have been spoken by a close knit group or  
> tribe as you said. And, in fact isn't it spoken by a "small group" at  
> the time being? Interesting thought.  
> jan Anti (Andy)  
> 
> > [_Post by galactonerd_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post1)  
> > What are your thoughts on what a Toki-Pona-apeaking culture might be  
> > like? I imagine they would live in a desert, with a lifestyle  
> > 
> 
> somewhat  
> 
> > [_Post by galactonerd_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post1)  
> > like the Kalahari bush tribes, because the small vocabulary  
> > 
> 
> 

suggests  

> [_Post by Sam Chapman_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post5)  
> 
> > [_Post by galactonerd_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post1)  
> > that there aren't a whole lot of things to name. I would also guess  
> > that it started out as some kind of creole, because of its lack of  
> > metaphorical language.  
> > Any other ideas?  
> > jan Sosuwa  
> > 
> 
> Send instant messages to your online friends  
> 

http://uk.messenger.yahoo.com