---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2008-08-16 14:37:51 UTC
nestinglevel: 1
---
I think the point of the remnants in the last good place was to explain the etymology of tp words. Ignoring that, the desert isle makes sense -- except that such isolated (literally) languages tend to be much more complex that tp (so do contact languages, come to that).  
  
  
  
\----- Original Message ----  
From: Liogab11 <\*\*\*@yahoo.com>  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Sent: Saturday, August 16, 2008 8:02:37 AM  
Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] Re: Toki-Pona-speaking culture  
  
  
I like the idea of Toki Pona being spoken on a deserted island. But I was just thinking  
if it's also possible to imagine a group of forest people using the language. Sometimes  
I imagine a castaway tribe speaking in Toki Pona.  
  
I can also imagine Toki Pona being spoken in a desolate Artic/Antartic region.  
  
mi taso li lon  
jan ala li lon poka mi  
mun li pana e suno  
ona li suno e telo oko mi  
  
jan Pusa  
  
  
  
  
\--- On Fri, 15/8/08, frpeterjackson <frpeterjackson@ yahoo.com> wrote:  
  
From: frpeterjackson <frpeterjackson@ yahoo.com>  
Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: Toki-Pona-speaking culture  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroup s.com  
Date: Friday, 15 August, 2008, 9:41 PM  
  
  
tempo sunu pini la mi lukin e toki Tok Pisin li mi kama sona e ni:  
toki ni li sama mute poka toki pona. ijo nanpa wan la toki pona li  
kepeken e nimi "li". kepeken nasin sama la toki Tok Pisin li kepeken e  
nimi "i". mi sona ala e ni: ni li kama tan toki Tok Pisin.  
  
tan ni la nasin pi toki pona li sama poka nasin pi jan Tok Pisin.  
  
I was recently looking at Tok Pisin, and I realized how much toki pona  
is based on it. E.g., the use of a predicate marker ("li" in toki  
pona; "i" in Tok Pisin) after third person, but not after first or  
second person. (I always thought this was clever, but I didn't realize  
it was adopted from Tok Pisin.)  
  
So it would make sense to imagine our "culture" as being more  
island-based, not just because of Tok Pisin, but because of other  
pidgins and creoles of a similar nature.  
  
jan Pita  

> [_Post by andrew49097_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post2)  
> It's funny, I imagine something simular, yet opposite of a desert. I  
> imagine if toki pona were to have occurred naturally, it would have  
> been on an isolated tropical island. Sort of like a desert in the sense  
> that it is isolated and such. Then again, I could have just thought  
> that sense the language resembles something like Hawai'ian or Japanese.  
> Either way, toki pona would have been spoken by a close knit group or  
> tribe as you said. And, in fact isn't it spoken by a "small group" at  
> the time being? Interesting thought.  
> jan Anti (Andy)  
> 
> > [_Post by galactonerd_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post1)  
> > What are your thoughts on what a Toki-Pona-apeaking culture might be  
> > like? I imagine they would live in a desert, with a lifestyle  
> > 
> 
> somewhat  
> 
> > [_Post by galactonerd_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post1)  
> > like the Kalahari bush tribes, because the small vocabulary suggests  
> > that there aren't a whole lot of things to name. I would also guess  
> > that it started out as some kind of creole, because of its lack of  
> > metaphorical language.  
> > Any other ideas?  
> > jan Sosuwa  
> > 
> 
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
New Email addresses available on Yahoo!  
Get the Email name you've always wanted on the new @ymail and @rocketmail.  
Hurry before someone else does!