---
author: "andrew49097"
date: 2008-08-18 17:05:43 UTC
nestinglevel: 2
---
It's just fun to speculate. Obviously, since Toki Pona is constructed  
it lacks certain things that a language of "evolution" would have  
adapted. This keeps the language pure like toki pona is. It hasn't  
had the time to become polluted. So, perhaps a group was plopped in a  
deserted place, and to establish common ground, toki pona arose as a  
pidgin. Therefore toki pona would be a young, less complex language,  
as it is.  
  
\-jan Anti (Andy)  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post7)  
> I think the point of the remnants in the last good place was to  
> 

explain the etymology of tp words. Ignoring that, the desert isle  
makes sense -- except that such isolated (literally) languages tend  
to be much more complex that tp (so do contact languages, come to  
that).  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post7)  
> \----- Original Message ----  
> Sent: Saturday, August 16, 2008 8:02:37 AM  
> Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] Re: Toki-Pona-speaking culture  
> I like the idea of Toki Pona being spoken on a deserted island. But I was just thinking  
> if it's also possible to imagine a group of forest people using the language. Sometimes  
> I imagine a castaway tribe speaking in Toki Pona.  
> I can also imagine Toki Pona being spoken in a desolate  
> 

Artic/Antartic region.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post7)  
> mi taso li lon  
> jan ala li lon poka mi  
> mun li pana e suno  
> ona li suno e telo oko mi  
> jan Pusa  
> Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: Toki-Pona-speaking culture  
> Date: Friday, 15 August, 2008, 9:41 PM  
> toki ni li sama mute poka toki pona. ijo nanpa wan la toki pona li  
> kepeken e nimi "li". kepeken nasin sama la toki Tok Pisin li  
> 

kepeken e  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post7)  
> nimi "i". mi sona ala e ni: ni li kama tan toki Tok Pisin.  
> tan ni la nasin pi toki pona li sama poka nasin pi jan Tok Pisin.  
> I was recently looking at Tok Pisin, and I realized how much toki pona  
> is based on it. E.g., the use of a predicate marker ("li" in toki  
> pona; "i" in Tok Pisin) after third person, but not after first or  
> second person. (I always thought this was clever, but I didn't  
> 

realize  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post7)  
> it was adopted from Tok Pisin.)  
> So it would make sense to imagine our "culture" as being more  
> island-based, not just because of Tok Pisin, but because of other  
> pidgins and creoles of a similar nature.  
> jan Pita  
> 
> > [_Post by andrew49097_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post2)  
> > It's funny, I imagine something simular, yet opposite of a  
> > 
> 
> 

desert. I  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post7)  
> 
> > [_Post by andrew49097_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post2)  
> > imagine if toki pona were to have occurred naturally, it would have  
> > been on an isolated tropical island. Sort of like a desert in the sense  
> > that it is isolated and such. Then again, I could have just  
> > 
> 
> 

thought  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post7)  
> 
> > [_Post by andrew49097_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post2)  
> > that sense the language resembles something like Hawai'ian or Japanese.  
> > Either way, toki pona would have been spoken by a close knit  
> > 
> 
> 

group or  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post7)  
> 
> > [_Post by andrew49097_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post2)  
> > tribe as you said. And, in fact isn't it spoken by a "small  
> > 
> 
> 

group" at  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post7)  
> 
> > [_Post by andrew49097_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post2)  
> > the time being? Interesting thought.  
> > jan Anti (Andy)  
> > 
> > > [_Post by galactonerd_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post1)  
> > > What are your thoughts on what a Toki-Pona-apeaking culture might be  
> > > like? I imagine they would live in a desert, with a lifestyle  
> > > 
> > 
> > somewhat  
> > 
> > > [_Post by galactonerd_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post1)  
> > > like the Kalahari bush tribes, because the small vocabulary suggests  
> > > that there aren't a whole lot of things to name. I would also guess  
> > > that it started out as some kind of creole, because of its lack of  
> > > metaphorical language.  
> > > Any other ideas?  
> > > jan Sosuwa  
> > > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
> New Email addresses available on Yahoo!  
> 

@rocketmail.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/gjxvkZAY/toki-pona-speaking-culture#post7)  
> Hurry before someone else does!  
>