---
author: "Pije"
date: 2003-02-27T23:59:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
A few weeks ago at church, the minister told this following storynear the end of the service. Although it was a Christian church, Ithink this story uniquely follows the idea of pona, and so I thoughtit would be good to share it here. Of course, it was told orally, soI've inevitably changed some of the details. But here goes. One day, a young fisherman was sitting out on the bank of a largelake, relaxing, enjoying the sunshine, and eating some fruit as helistened to the water. As he was lying there, another man walked upto him. The new man looked at the young fisherman lying on the groundfor a moment, and then he said, "What are you just lying around likethat for? This is a terrific day to go fishing. Get up and go catchsome fish!" The young fisherman looked up after a moment and said, "Well why doI need to go fishing?" The stranger replied, "Well, you could probably get a big catchtoday. And if you caught enough fish, you could go buy a biggerfishing net." The young fisherman then said, "Well, what do I need a bigger netfor?" So the stranger told him, "If you had a bigger net, then you couldcatch MORE fish." But the young fisherman looked a bit confused. He said, "But whywould I want to go and catch more fish for?" The stranger thought this young fisherman must not be too bright, sohe explained himself fully, saying, "Don't you get it? If you wentand got a bigger net, you could catch more fish. Then you could evenget a bigger boat. Then you could really get lots and lots of fish." The fisherman still looked like he didn't understand. He said, "Soyou're saying I should go fishing so I can buy more stuff to catcheven more fish. But why should I do that?" So the stranger said, "Why, if you did all of those things, youcould finally sit back and enjoy life! You should get to work now." The fisherman smirked as he leaned back down on the green grass. Hethen glanced over to the stranger and said, "You say that if I didall of those things, I could finally enjoy my life. But, you see,that's what I'm doing right now." After the stranger walked away, the fisherman turned over and took anap.Don't you think it's a good story?--
 Pije