---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-08-28T22:07:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
The original point was to object to replacing "tomo" with 'poki auli" or "pokijan." If thatobjection can be made with "tomo" = "building (product)" then I don't much carewhat you want tosay: "building (product)" surely is a meaning of "tomo." But for internalconsistency it is stilleasier to take "to construct/build (process)'" as the basic meaning from whichthe others arederived.---
 Rick Miller <[rdmiller3@gmail.com](mailto://rdmiller3@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> On 8/28/07, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

> 
> But the argumentum etymologicum is invalid.
>> So, are you still trying to say that "tomo" means "to
> build/construct"? I think "pali" fits that application much better.Well,l people use "pali" more often, but "tomo" as vt has a more specificmeaning --
 "pali" isawfully broad.
> Let's look at the official word list:
>> tomo
> - n indoor constructed space, e.g. house, home, room, building
> - mod urban, domestic, householdThe official list in woefully incomplete (see the thousand or so additions fromrunning text) andmeant as a handy guide, not a systenmatic exposition.
> So it seems to have a lot to do with "being indoors", houses, homes,
> ROOMS... habitations, dwellings, shelter, artificial living spaces for
> people... not about the act of construction. As a transitive verb it
> would mean, "to shelter", "to house" or "to host" (eo: "gastigi",
> "endomigi").Not the way the rules work: "tomo" as vt = "to make something a tomo(n)" (notthe formaldefinition, of course, just a built in equivalence)
> Let's look again at the official word list:
>> pali
> - n activity, work, deed, project
> - mod active, work-related, operating, working
> - vt do, make, build, create
> - vi act, work, function
>> Now \*this\* is about making and building things, the act of
> construction. It's right there in the transitive verb form
> definition.But "pali" is for any kind of activity, even ones which are not creative, "tomo"is much narrower(of course, we may not want the narrow notion and, indeed, it is rarely used --
if ever).
> "mi pali e tomo." = "I'm building a house."
> How would you say it instead?tautologously as "mi tomo e tomo" if I were in that mood.