---
author: "Sonja Elen Kisa"
date: 2002-10-27T18:25:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\*\* Language Update from the Creator of Toki Pona \*\*The words "en", "kin", "kan" and the concept of "and" have beenrelatively unstable and confusing in Toki Pona, as I have beenexperimenting to find the best system.-= Early Toki Pona =-"en" divided between modifiers = andjan pona en suli = good and tall personThere was no clear way to divide between head nouns. "en" needed tobe repeated to divide between multiple main nouns, which was clumsyat timesen kon lete en suno = the north wind and the sun(because "kon lete en suno" would have meant "cold and sunny air")"kin" was added in front of any word for emphasis = also, indeed, evenkin mi pali = \*I\* work too"kan" was a quasi-preposition verb meaning "with the company of"mi kan sina = I am with you-= Mid Toki Pona =-"kin" became the way to divide head nouns. It still retained itsmeaning as an emphasizer.kon lete kin suno = the north wind and the sunmi kin wile = I even want toThis addressed the need of an "and" word for in between head nouns,but created syntactical confusion with the other meaning of "kin"."en" and "kan" stayed the same.-= Proposed New Toki Pona =-"en" is now used to divide between head nouns.kon lete en suno = the north wind an the sunThere is no longer a way to divide between modifiers. This is nolonger necessary. A "tall and good" person is simply a tall "goodperson" or a good "tall person", as you will.With a plural-intended meaning you can always use an expressionlike "en ona":mije pona en ona ije = good men and bad ones, good and bad menAlthough repeating "mije" twice is probably more Tokiponish.mije pona en mije ikeIn this example there is clearly at least 2 men, at least 1 good and1 bad."kan" no longer exists. "en" is used. (and = with)mi en sina. = I am with you.mi en mije li toki. = I talk with the man. Me and the man arediscussing.This frees up "kin" to be used an as emphasis word to be added beforeany word.kin sina = you toomi wile moku e kin waso = I want to eat chicken too, I even want toeat chicken(or: mi kin wile moku e waso)Note that there is still a good way to divide head nouns by repeatingseparating particles.mi wile moku e kili e waso. = I want to eat vegetables and chicken.I think this update will finally settle these details and manyunanswered questions. I am open to comments... What do you think?-= Advanced Numbers =-I am also considering getting rid of the so-called "advanced numbers"like "luka luka luka tu tu wan". I have noticed that some speakersare abusing them. Maybe it would be much better if they simply didn'texist, preventing people from getting hung up on them. It's alwaysbetter to count with: wan, tu, mute. ;)If this happened, I suppose it would sill be grammatical to saysomething like "tu en tu en tu en tu en wan", making the need forcomplex numbers even more ridiculous.The intent of the complex numbers was just to give an option whensuch precision is really necessary. In TP it is always better tosimplify thought.