---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-05-21T16:54:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 [MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com) wrote:

> In a message dated 5/21/2007 9:23:26 AM Central Daylight Time,
> [clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net) writes:

>>> 
> Clearly, there are overlaps, so when making a way of talking about some of
> 
> these, which order things are put in (deliberately ambiguous) will depend
> 
> heavily on context: when
> 
> it is flying we want bats to do, they are some sort of waso, when they are
> 
> just hanging in
> 
> caves,they are some sort of soweli.
> 
>>> I think what the animal is doing at the moment is not nearly as important as
> what the animal habitually or typically does. So a bat that is hanging is
> still a waso, even though it's not flying at the moment. Birds that arewalking
> or swimming (especially submerged) are still waso, no? Pipi that fly are
> still pipi, too, right?I am trying hard to be a contextualist here. If we are talking about batshanging in a cave, itmay be more useful to call them soweli, even though they fly when moving. Thatis, what words weuse are a function of what we want to say in a given situation, not of what thereferent IS insome universal sense. For the diving bird cases. I do think they are stillbirds, but that may bea factor of the relatively short amount of time spent diving (of course,chickens are birds buthardly fly at all). Maybe the crucial thing for waso is having wings, notactually using them.But then penguins are a problem – are those really wings? I think thestruthiocameloids escapethis proble like chickens do, Penguins may be soweli or even kala.