---
author: "bacchus13579"
date: 2002-12-07T04:49:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I was sitting in math class today, thinking about Toki Pona andturning some things over in my head. Later, when it was almost timeto go home for the day, I got to thinking "At last!" After a fewminutes had passed, I had come up with the idea that the best way tosay, "At last!" in Toki Pona is "pini".Of course, in some situations (for example, when I was rejoicing thatit was time to go home), "pona!" would certainly work. If a long-missed family member returned home, one might say, "pona!,"however, "at last" might also fit this situation. But suppose thatsomething that has long been expected has finally come, even thoughit is not necessarily good. A good example of such a situation isArthur Dimmesdale of The Scarlet Letter. After seven, terrorizing,dark, dreadful years, Dimmesdale finally confessed his sin to thepeople. Within seconds of doing so, however, he fell over dead ofnatural causes. Because he was such a highly-honored man, his suddendeath could hardly be considered "pona," but the people mightthink "at last!" because they finally knew the truth about the personwho had committed the sin. Therefore, I think the use of "pini" as aninterjection meaning "at last!" would make Toki Pona a bit morecolorful and humanistic.Several words are already used to make interjections (such as "ike\[bad\]" being "oh no!"). Wouldn't it make sense to let "pini" be usedas an interjection to mean "finally!" or "at last!"?