---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-09-03T20:36:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Nice quesrrions. Have you checked the online word lists?"hate" is "pili ike e" I think,"book" seems to be "lipu" or some cmpound of that"God" is "jan sewi"I think that --
 as for most things --
"Thank you" is "pona"I wouldn't be surprised if "You're welcome" were too.I think I have seen most of these somewhere in the corpus, but don't have themorganized yet.Hopefully, answers that come to you will fill some gaps.---
 palakonoli <[palakonoli@yahoo.com](mailto://palakonoli@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

> Hi!
>> I've just finished the online Toki Pona course. No doubt it's the
> weirdest language I've ever encountered... but it's pretty cool
> indeed.
>> Now I have some questions for you to help me make up my mind about
> the language:
>> 1. What is the Toki Pona for:
> - hatred
> - question
> - book
> - almost
> - without
> - God
> - Thank you!
> - You're welcome!
>> 2. What does the phrase "toki awen" mean?
>> 3. A little personal question: What does Toki Pona mean to you? Do
> you
> see it as a philosophy of life, linguistic parody, just a language
> you
> use for fun etc.?I used to work with a horribly complicated language (or family of languages).Toki pona is arelief --
 a language I can work with and actually get in my head all at once. Itinker withlanguages and this is a partiuclarly nice one to mess with (I am a fan ofsemantic primes and tpis about as close to a language with only semantic primes as one can get anstill say anything.)