---
author: "palakonoli"
date: 2006-09-03T22:20:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Thanks for your answers and for the link to the dictionary (it cancome in quite handy).
> I presently see it as a wonderful language which is capable toexpress
> almost everything with a very small vocabulary and with a still
> tolerable precision. Of course that for science etc. there isEsperanto,
> but it would be just nice to explore how a language like thiscould
> develop, so I'm for pushing it forward and exploring all itsaspects.
> The meeting of a bunch of tokiponists at the IJK (World EsperantoYouth
> Convention) in Sarajevo was a very exciting experience - it made alot
> of us think of the time back in 1905 when speakers of Esperantogathered
> for the first time to try the language in practice in speech.
>> Marek (jan Male)
>I've been thinking to myself about the same thing, i.e. trying tocompare Esperanto with Toki Pona.One of the things I liked about Toki Pona was its overallsimplicity, especially the time it takes to learn it. I think noother language can be thoroughly acquired in just one or two days.Then again, you can't claim to have thoroughly acquired a languageyou can't say "question" in...Esperanto is a whole different issue. It was created at a time whenpeople were much more idealistic than today and were willing tosacrifice a lot for what they believed. I don't think many oftoday's Esperantists really believe Esperanto is going to getsomewhere, in terms of being what it was supposed to be. MostEsperantists just enjoy using the language as a side hobby andnothing more.Personally, If I felt like learning a constructed language, just forthe heck of it (not for world peace and that stuff), and I had 2options: Esperanto, which is much harder and much more precise, andToki Pona, which is much easier and much more informal - I would gofor Toki Pona. But maybe it's only me...