---
author: "Daniel Lyons"
date: 2009-02-18T17:56:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
On Feb 18, 2009, at 4:41 AM, master1077 wrote:

> Do you think it can be the international language?Not \*the\* international language, but I think it can be \*an\*international language. I wouldn't be surprised if it grew to thepoint where every major city had maybe fifty people or so who spoke itand wouldn't mind spending some time with travelers. It would be mucheasier to have a simple conversation in Toki Pona amongst people whodo not share a language than it would be to stumble through eachother's languages. But it wouldn't be possible to talk abouteverything at every level of detail.
> Do you think it can really express everything by using it's root
> words. I believe so since
> the Chinese can do it and Toki Pona is very similar to it but what do
> you believe?I think it suffices for many of the things we talk about the most. Ata coarse resolution it seems to do fine. But it's a bit like thinkingwith boxing gloves on. Not hard to get a point across, but hard to fixa watch with. I'm hoping to get my girlfriend and my friends to learnit so we can have private conversations in public situations.
> Do you think Toki Pona should only be written with the 14
> letters and the period or should it be written with colons (:),
> explanation marks (!), question marks (?), etc...?I'm also learning Lojban right now and they're really quite anal aboutorthographic concerns. TP's inner circle doesn't seem to have madeanything like a ruling about this. It ought to be possible to write itwith many or most of the world's orthographies. I agree with janElumutu regarding punctuation. More would seem to be extraneous. Atthe same time, the philosophy seems to be live and let live and itdoesn't seem worthwhile to make a big deal out of it.
> Do you think Toki Pona has a future and if so, what future?I think it has many futures.1. For curious people or philosophers who want to expand their minds2. For researchers exploring aspects of language3. As an extremely simple international auxiliary language (as janWiko says)4. For depressed people who want to try outlandish remedies5. For people who want to have private conversations in public6. For language constructors doing research before making their ownProbably another dozen others I haven't thought of.
> Will it replace the European-centric Esperanto?I don't even think it's a serious contender for that. A bit likeasking if bicycles stand a chance of replacing subway systems.Lojban is a more likely candidate for replacing Esperanto, but theodds of that are extremely small.—Daniel Lyonshttp://[http://www.storytotell.org](http://www.storytotell.org) --
 Tell It!\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]