---
author: "Marcos CRUZ"
date: 2007-04-27T11:33:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 John E Clifford <clifford-j@...
> wrote:

> 
> povas uzi la saman pronomon por distingi anojn el unu grupo tre
> 
> facile:
> 
>> 
> ona pali li kama. ona moku li kama ala.
> This might have two (at least) readings corresponding
> roughly to restrictive and non-restrictive relative clauses.
> I think the restrictive one,
> which appears to be what is recommended here, as the right one.I agree. I think it is the natural reading. It respects the spirit ofthe language: you are modifing the subject, so the result has to berestrictive. I think non-restrictive clauses don't need any specialstructure:ona li pali. ona li kama. ona ante li moku. ona ante li kama ala.ona li pali li kama. ona ante li moku li kama ala.
> And it works as well with "sina" and with "mi"
> (if we get over the singularity of "I" and just
> think "first person").
> This does, of course, go against my suggestion
> for an explanation for setting these two words up
> as special cases and it creates a brief
> false path "you work... Oh! the workers among you."You're right. I soon realised that "oh!" when I started studing TPthis month. I wrote about that in a message several days ago. Becauseof the "li" exception, some times you don't know what the words aredoing at first:sina pali \["you work"\] li \[oh!, it was "you, workers"\] kama.In fact, the same problem happens every day with "mute":sina mute \["you make many/much..."\] li \[oh!, it was just "you"\] kama.I really dislike that kind of "oh!" things. Just a little bit ofLojban, please!! :-DMarcos--
[http://alinome.net](http://alinome.net)