---
author: "Corey"
date: 2004-08-26T13:05:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
OK, I'd just like to comment on one thing.
> jan Pije's lesson 11 gives the examples,
>> 
>>mi toki jan. = I talk about people.
> 
>>mi toki pi jan ike. = I talk about bad people.
>> but I'm not sure that really makes sense.
> Using "e" to make the topic of speech or thought
> the direct object of "toki" or "pilin" makes sense,
> and we do it all the time with "ni" as the object,
> referring forward to quoted direct speech following, e.g.,
>> mi toki e ni tawa ona: "sina wile ala wile e moku?"To me, saying "mi toki jan" implies that "jan" is a modifier (in thiscase, an adverb) of "toki". Therefore the sentence would be literallytranslated as, "I speak person-ly". To me, this would mean somethinglike, "I talk/speak like a person". I would not translate it as "Italk about people.". Perhaps I am being too literal?Also, when we use "e ni" after "toki" or "pilin", typically it is in ausage like this:"mi toki e ni: blah blah blah""I said this: blah blah blah"To me, that makes perfect sense because "ni" is a direct object in mymind. It is being acted upon, it is being said. I do not think thisform of construction could be used to mean "about". For example:?? "mi toki e jan" ???? "I said the person" ??In my opinion, it's just illogical to have that type of constructionmean "about". I think I'm being too literal in translation, and I'mgoing against the tp philosophy in more ways than one, but I justdon't understand.Comments, rants, and even flames will be accepted and, in most cases,encouraged.-jan Kowijan lawa pi lipu "www.tokipona.bravehost.com"o lukin e lipu mi!