---
author: "frpeterjackson"
date: 2004-08-26T14:15:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), Jim Henry <jimhenry@p...
> wrote:

>> jan Pita li toki e ni:
> 
> One point I'd like to address is the "about" problem. It
> 
> seems to me that "toki" and "pilin" can automatically
> 
> include "about". E.g. mi toki kepeken toki Inli. "I
> 
> talk in English." vs. mi toki e toki Inli. "I talk about
> 
> English."
>> jan Pije's lesson 11 gives the examples,
>> 
>>mi toki jan. = I talk about people.
> 
>>mi toki pi jan ike. = I talk about bad people.
>> but I'm not sure that really makes sense.
> Using "e" to make the topic of speech or thought
> the direct object of "toki" or "pilin" makes sense,
> and we do it all the time with "ni" as the object,
> referring forward to quoted direct speech following, e.g.,
>> mi toki e ni tawa ona: "sina wile ala wile e moku?"jan Pita: Also, "toki jan" acc. to TP grammar should mean "humanlanguage"; "mi toki jan", then, would mean "I am a human language"or "I speak humanly." If "toki" is understood as "discuss", then "mitoki e jan" simply means "I discuss people" or "I talk aboutpeople." Just as "about" is implicit in the Eng. word "discuss", sotoo in the case of TP "toki". So, yes, using "e" resolves this.
>> 
>To express speaking to someone, then, we can use
> 
> "toki tawa":
>> 
> mi toki e toki Inli: I talk about English.
>> 
> mi toki tawa ona. I talk to/speak with him/her.
>> 
> mi toki kepeken toki pona. I talk in TP.
>> 
> mi toki e toki Epelanto tawa ona kepeken toki pona. "I
> 
> talked about Esperanto with him in Toki Pona."
>> pona.
>> 
> Likewise w/"pilin": mi pilin pona e tenpo ni pi mani. "I
> 
> feel good about the economy \[financial present\]." "To worry
> 
> about" can be expressed with "tan": mi pilin ike tan tenpo
> 
> ni pi sijelo sina. "I'm worried about your current health."
>> "pilin" with a direct object would seem to imply "think"
> rather than "feel". I would use "tan" to mark the cause
> of both "pilin pona" and "pilin ike". Also, the "pi" in
> "tenpo ni pi mani" is misplaced.
>> "mi pilin e toki pona." = I think about Toki Pona.
>> "mi pilin ike tan ali mani." = I feel bad about the money-all.
>> "mi pilin pona tan pona sijelo sina." = I am happy about your
> good health.jan Pita: You're right, Jim. It works better w/"tan" in there inboth cases.
>> But what about when you want to say,
> "I said nothing to him about my health."?
> Probably this:
>> ? mi toki ala e pona sijelo mi tawa ona.jan Pita: Again, if "toki" is understood in the sense of "discuss",this translates straightforwardly as "I did not discuss my healthto/with him."
>> Or "I asked him about his health"?
>> mi toki e ni tawa ona lon pona sijelo ona: "sijelo sina li ponaala pona?"
>> Here I used "lon" for "about" because "e" is already used for "ni"
> and "lon" can hardly be confused for a locative preposition in this
> context. Does that make sense to everyone else?jan Pita: It seems acceptable to me to use "lon" this way. It wouldhave the sense of "on (the matter of)": "I told him this on (thematter of) his health." But in this particular example, you don'teven need the prep. phrase, because you can just say, "mi toki e nitawa ona: "sijelo sina li pona ala pona?" Since "sijelo sina" isused in the second clause, it is redundant in the first.