---
author: "Jim Henry"
date: 2004-08-26T14:34:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
jan "Sonja Elen Kisa" <[sonja@kisa.ca](mailto://sonja@kisa.ca)\
> li toki e ni:
> I talk about people = mi toki lon janpona. taso, toki ni li ike sona:mi toki lon tomo ona.I talked at her house - OR - I talked about her house.jan "Corey" <[n649po@yahoo.com](mailto://n649po@yahoo.com)\
> li toki e ni:
> OK, I'd just like to comment on one thing.
> 
> jan Pije's lesson 11 gives the examples,
> 
>> 
> 
>>mi toki jan. = I talk about people.
> 
> 
>>mi toki pi jan ike. = I talk about bad people.
> 
>> 
> but I'm not sure that really makes sense.
> 
> Using "e" to make the topic of speech or thought
> 
> the direct object of "toki" or "pilin" makes sense,
> To me, saying "mi toki jan" implies that "jan" is a modifier (in this
> case, an adverb) of "toki". Therefore the sentence would be literally
> translated as, "I speak person-ly". To me, this would mean something
> like, "I talk/speak like a person". I would not translate it as "I
> talk about people.". Perhaps I am being too literal?Yes, I think you're right. This is an error in jan Pije's lesson 11.I'll fix it in my Esperanto translation - when I know whatthe correct alternative is.
> Also, when we use "e ni" after "toki" or "pilin", typically it is in a
> usage like this:
> "mi toki e ni: blah blah blah"
> "I said this: blah blah blah"
> To me, that makes perfect sense because "ni" is a direct object in my
> mind. It is being acted upon, it is being said. I do not think this
> form of construction could be used to mean "about". For example:
> ?? "mi toki e jan" ??
> ?? "I said the person" ??
> In my opinion, it's just illogical to have that type of construction
> mean "about". I think I'm being too literal in translation, and I'm
> going against the tp philosophy in more ways than one, but I just
> don't understand.I had the same qualm; but there is another potential ambiguity with using"lon" to mean "about". What if you want to say something like"I talked about X at-location Y"?This one is unambiguous because the first lon-phrasecan't be a locative:mi toki lon sona toki lon tomo pi kama sona.I talked about linguistics at the school.but this is ambiguous:mi toki lon tomo pi kama sona lon tomo mi.I talked about school at home. - OR - I talked about home at school.- Jim Henryhttp://[http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry](http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry)