---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-05-08T17:42:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Adjective after noun!---
 Harry Coburn <[mattibun@gmail.com](mailto://mattibun@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> A more complex one:
>>> Toki sona "jan pi kasi sona en kasi kili""Man of the tree of knopwledge?" Probably you mean "man who knows trees" "janpi sona kasi" Seeabove.
>>> Jan pi kasi sona li jo e kasi kili. Kasi kili li jo e ala kili. Taso waso en
> pipi li lape lon insa (PI? I think that "lon insa" is not a preposition but anoun phrasefollwoing a prepeositions) kasi kili.
>>>> Jan pi kasi sona li wile pakala e kasi kili. Ona li pakala e kasi kili anpa
> kepeken ilo kiwen pi kasi pakala.
>"ruin the low fruit tree" (even subterranean)"pakala anpa", even just "anpa"probably intended(adverbs come right after verbs, too)
>> Waso en pipi li wile pakala ala e kasi kili.
>"li wile ni: ona li pakala ala..." To be sure the birds and bugs don't want tohurt the treeeither, but the point is, they don't want him to. maybe better even as "wileala e ni: ona lipakala e kasi"
>> Jan pi kasi sona li pakala ala e kasi kili la ona LI wile (li - strike out orjust move back)kalama musi lon
> jan pi kasi sona.
>"lon?" maybe "tawa" "for, in behalf of"?
>> Jan pi kasi sona li kute ala. Ona li pakala e kasi kili pi nanpa tu. Ona li
> pakala e kasi kili pi naNpa tu wan.It isn't the second and third tree, it is the second and third whack. So,somehow this "nanpa N"has to modify either "pakala" or the whole sentence. I know how to do the wholesentence: prefix"tenpo pi nanpa tu la" and so on. I suppose that the other is just attaching"pi nanapa tu" to"pakala" but I can't find an example.
>>>> Jan pi kasi sona li lukin e kasi kili insa.What is the tree indide of? "insa pi kasi kili"
>>> Kasi kIli li jo e tomo suwi.
>>>> Jan pi kasi sona li moku lili e tomo suwi. Ona li weka e ilo kiwen pi kasi
> pakala.The tree is indeed injured but it doesn't have the metal thingie. The meatalthngie is forinjuring the tree: "pi pakala kasi"
>>>> Ona pilin e ni: kasi kili li kasi sewi.
>>>> Ona li pona e kasi kili.
>>>> Toki sona li ni: jo pi wile mi taso li tawa e jan lili.
>"Having only my desire ( or "having my desire only") moves children"
>At a guess "wile pi mi taso (still ambiguous because of the imprecision of themodifier relation)tawa (hmmmm - usually physical movement, but nothing else obviously fits better)e jan (but how tostress that his is just some people not people generally?)
>>>>>> (The Peasant and the Apple-Tree
>> A PEASANT had in his garden an Apple-Tree which bore no fruit but
>> only served as a harbor for the sparrows and grasshoppers. He
>> resolved to cut it down, and taking his axe in his hand, made a
>> bold stroke at its roots. The grasshoppers and sparrows
>> entreated him not to cut down the tree that sheltered them, but
>> to spare it, and they would sing to him and lighten his labors.
>> He paid no attention to their request, but gave the tree a second
>> and a third blow with his axe. When he reached the hollow of the
>> tree, he found a hive full of honey. Having tasted the
>> honeycomb, he threw down his axe, and looking on the tree as
>> sacred, took great care of it.
>> Self-interest alone moves some men )
>> jan Eli
>