---
author: "Harry Coburn"
date: 2007-05-09T12:34:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
On 5/8/07, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

>Adjective after noun!
>"Man of the tree of knopwledge?" Probably you mean "man who knows
>trees" "jan pi sona kasi" See
>above.I probably was thinking 'man of the knowledge of trees and flipped it.
> Jan pi kasi sona li kute ala. Ona li pakala e kasi kili pi nanpa tu. Ona li
> pakala e kasi kili pi naNpa tu wan.
>It isn't the second and third tree, it is the second and third whack.So, somehow 
>his "nanpa N"
>has to modify either "pakala" or the whole sentence. I know how to dothe whole 
>sentence: prefix
>"tenpo pi nanpa tu la" and so on. I suppose that the other is justattaching "pi 
>nanapa tu" to
>"pakala" but I can't find an example.This was one of the harder sentences for me, but your explanation makes sense.
> Toki sona li ni: jo pi wile mi taso li tawa e jan lili.
>"Having only my desire ( or "having my desire only") moves children"
>>At a guess "wile pi mi taso (still ambiguous because of theimprecision of the 
>modifier relation) tawa (hmmmm - usually physicalmovement, but nothing else 
>obviously fits better) e jan (but how tostress that his is just some people not 
>people generally?)Here I was trying to use lili in the sense of 'a few', but I know janlili does normally mean child. Instead of tawa I think lawa would fit(directs, drives, leads).Suggestion for some: use luka? I think 'five people' could beconsidered "some", as opposed to one person, two people or allpeople. (wan, tu, ali)Adjective after noun!jan Eli