---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-05-09T13:25:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
pona mute a.---
 Helmut Voigt <[akesi_palisa@yahoo.de](mailto://akesi_palisa@yahoo.de)\
> wrote:

> ali o, toki!
> o lukin e toki awen mi:
> jan pi sona kasi en kasi kili
> jan pi sona kasi li jo e kasi kili. taso kasi kili li jo ala e kili. wasoen pipi li lape lon
> insa kasi kili taso.I'm not sure how "taso" works here: "only inside the tree", "inside the treeonly" "only sleep","only birds and bugs' (in decreasing order of probability). I would have put itat the beginningto except from the negative import of the preceding sentence with the positivehere.
> jan pi sona kasi li wile pakala e kasi kili. tan ni, ona li pakala wawa eanpa kasi kepeken
> ilo kiwen pi pakala kasi.
> waso en pipi li wile awen e kasi kili. tan ni, ona mute li toki e nimi nitawa jan pi sona
> kasi: o pakala ala e kasi ni tan ni: kasi kili ni li sama tomo pi mi mute.sina awen e kasi kili
> ni la mi mute wile kalama musi uta tawa sina.Is "wile" too strong here? Maybe just "sing to you," not "have to sing to you."
> jan pi sona kasi li kute ala e toki ni. tenpo tu sin la ona li pakala wawa ekasi kili.
> jan pi sona kasi li lukin e insa pi kasi kili. kasi kuli li jo e tomo suwi.ko suwi mute li
> lon tomo suwi. ona li moku e ko suwi li weka e ilo kiwen li pilin e ni: kasikili ni li pona
> mute. tan ni, ona li pakala ala e kasi li ike. taso, ona li pona e kasi kili."li ike"? "He did not destroy the tree and was evil"?
> toki sona li ni: wile jo taso li kama e pali pi jan.Still the problem that "jan" looks general in this context. I hate to suggestthe logical "jan alaala"And "wile jo" seems weak for "selfish desire" or whatever.
> ken la, "jan sona kasi" li kin pona (sama "jan sona sijelo").
> jan ElumutuA subtle difference: a plant scientist v. a person who knows plants (maybe at apractical level),. this guy may be only jan pi pali kasi, "works with plants."
>> John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> schrieb:
> Adjective after noun!
> ---
 Harry Coburn <[mattibun@gmail.com](mailto://mattibun@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

>> 
> A more complex one:
> 
>> 
>> 
> Toki sona "jan pi kasi sona en kasi kili"
>> "Man of the tree of knopwledge?" Probably you mean "man who knows trees" "janpi sona kasi" See
> above.
> 
>> 
>> 
> Jan pi kasi sona li jo e kasi kili. Kasi kili li jo e ala kili. Taso waso en
> 
> pipi li lape lon insa (PI? I think that "lon insa" is not a preposition buta noun phrase
> follwoing a prepeositions) kasi kili.
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> Jan pi kasi sona li wile pakala e kasi kili. Ona li pakala e kasi kili anpa
> 
> kepeken ilo kiwen pi kasi pakala.
> 
>> "ruin the low fruit tree" (even subterranean)"pakala anpa", even just "anpa"probably intended
> (adverbs come right after verbs, too)
> 
>> 
> Waso en pipi li wile pakala ala e kasi kili.
> 
>> "li wile ni: ona li pakala ala..." To be sure the birds and bugs don't want tohurt the tree
> either, but the point is, they don't want him to. maybe better even as "wileala e ni: ona li
> pakala e kasi"
> 
>> 
> Jan pi kasi sona li pakala ala e kasi kili la ona LI wile (li - strike outor just move back)
> kalama musi lon
> 
> jan pi kasi sona.
> 
>> "lon?" maybe "tawa" "for, in behalf of"?
> 
>> 
> Jan pi kasi sona li kute ala. Ona li pakala e kasi kili pi nanpa tu. Ona li
> 
> pakala e kasi kili pi naNpa tu wan.
>> It isn't the second and third tree, it is the second and third whack. So,somehow this "nanpa N"
> has to modify either "pakala" or the whole sentence. I know how to do thewhole sentence: prefix
> "tenpo pi nanpa tu la" and so on. I suppose that the other is just attaching"pi nanapa tu" to
> "pakala" but I can't find an example.
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> Jan pi kasi sona li lukin e kasi kili insa.
>> What is the tree indide of? "insa pi kasi kili"
> 
>> 
>> 
> Kasi kIli li jo e tomo suwi.
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> Jan pi kasi sona li moku lili e tomo suwi. Ona li weka e ilo kiwen pi kasi
> 
> pakala.
>> The tree is indeed injured but it doesn't have the metal thingie. The meatalthngie is for
> injuring the tree: "pi pakala kasi"
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> Ona pilin e ni: kasi kili li kasi sewi.
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> Ona li pona e kasi kili.
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> Toki sona li ni: jo pi wile mi taso li tawa e jan lili.
> 
>> "Having only my desire ( or "having my desire only") moves children"
> 
>> At a guess "wile pi mi taso (still ambiguous because of the imprecision of themodifier
> relation)
> tawa (hmmmm - usually physical movement, but nothing else obviously fitsbetter) e jan (but how
> to
> stress that his is just some people not people generally?)
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> (The Peasant and the Apple-Tree
> 
>> 
> A PEASANT had in his garden an Apple-Tree which bore no fruit but
> 
>> 
> only served as a harbor for the sparrows and grasshoppers. He
> 
>> 
> resolved to cut it down, and taking his axe in his hand, made a
> 
>> 
> bold stroke at its roots. The grasshoppers and sparrows
> 
>> 
> entreated him not to cut down the tree that sheltered them, but
> 
>> 
> to spare it, and they would sing to him and lighten his labors.
> 
>> 
> He paid no attention to their request, but gave the tree a second
> 
>> 
> and a third blow with his axe. When he reached the hollow of the
> 
>> 
> tree, he found a hive full of honey. Having tasted the
> 
>> 
> honeycomb, he threw down his axe, and looking on the tree as
> 
>> 
> sacred, took great care of it.
> 
>> 
> Self-interest alone moves some men )
> 
>> 
> jan Eli
> 
>>>>>>>> ---------------------------------

> Yahoo! Clever - Der einfachste Weg, Fragen zu stellen und Wissenswertes mitAnderen zu teilen.