---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-05-09T13:32:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Harry Coburn <[mattibun@gmail.com](mailto://mattibun@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> On 5/8/07, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

>> 
>Adjective after noun!
>> 
>"Man of the tree of knopwledge?" Probably you mean "man who knows
> 
>trees" "jan pi sona kasi" See
> 
>above.
>> I probably was thinking 'man of the knowledge of trees and flipped it.
>>> 
> Jan pi kasi sona li kute ala. Ona li pakala e kasi kili pi nanpa tu. Ona li
> 
> pakala e kasi kili pi naNpa tu wan.
>> 
>It isn't the second and third tree, it is the second and third whack.
> So, somehow 
>his "nanpa N"
> 
>has to modify either "pakala" or the whole sentence. I know how to do
> the whole 
>sentence: prefix
> 
>"tenpo pi nanpa tu la" and so on. I suppose that the other is just
> attaching "pi 
>nanapa tu" to
> 
>"pakala" but I can't find an example.
>> This was one of the harder sentences for me, but your explanation makes sense.
>> 
> Toki sona li ni: jo pi wile mi taso li tawa e jan lili.
> 
>> "Having only my desire ( or "having my desire only") moves children"
> 
>> 
>At a guess "wile pi mi taso (still ambiguous because of the
> imprecision of the 
>modifier relation) tawa (hmmmm - usually physical
> movement, but nothing else 
>obviously fits better) e jan (but how to
> stress that his is just some people not 
>people generally?)
>> Here I was trying to use lili in the sense of 'a few', but I know jan
> lili does normally mean child. Instead of tawa I think lawa would fit
> (directs, drives, leads)."lawa" looks promising. "kama" as a transitive verb also works: "kama e ni: onali pali" or even"kama e pali ona"
> Suggestion for some: use luka? I think 'five people' could be
> considered "some", as opposed to one person, two people or all
> people. (wan, tu, ali)Apparently "jan pi nanpa lili" would work. Logic gives "jan ala ala." "luka"is likely to betaken literally.
> Adjective after noun!
>> jan Eli
>