---
author: "yragael.malbos"
date: 2008-01-13 02:30:43 UTC
nestinglevel: 0
---
toki!  
  
mi sin lon toki tomo ni. mi wile pana sitelen ni tawa sina. ni li  
sitelen wan mi.  
  
I'm new on this forum. I'd like to share this translation I have made  
with you. This is my first attempt at translating anything to toki  
pona. please feel free to coment on it.  
The text is a Buddhist text, not that I'm trying to convert anybody. I  
just wanted the face the challenge of translating such a thing into  
toki pona.  
  
First will come the text in toki pona, the English translation will  
follow.  
  
  
kama sona e jan Puta insa lon tenpo lon ni.  
  
tenpo pini pi lon wan ala la, sina kepeken tan kama lon en moli. sina  
wile kepeken ala tan ni la, sina wile lukin e lawa ale pi lon ale pi  
insa jan ale. sina wile kama sona e suno insa sina la, wile lukin e  
lawa ale pi lon ale pi insa jan ale. lawa ni nimi li Myoho-Renge-Kyo.  
sina kama sona e lawa ale pi lon ale pi insa jan ale la, sina poki e  
nimi Myoho-Renge-Kyo.  
jan Nichiren.  
  
  
On attaining Buddhahood in this lifetime.  
  
If you wish to free yourself from the sufferings of birth ans death  
you have endured since time without beginning and to attain without  
fail unsurpassed enlightenment in this lifetime, you must perceive the  
mystic truth that is originally inherent in all living beings. This  
truth is Myoho-renge-kyo. Chanting Myoho-renge-kyo will therefore  
enable you to grasp the mystic truth innate in all life.  
Nichiren.