---
author: "yragael.malbos"
date: 2008-01-20 01:53:32 UTC
nestinglevel: 2
---
toki,  
  
jan John E Clifford toki e ni:  
? O KAMA SONA E JAN PUTA? "Get to know Buddha" not quite what meant;  
maybe "o kama sama e jan Puta"? This is still an imperative, not a  
title. I suggest a paraphrase: say, 'ona li ken kama sama e jan Puta.  
ni li nasin:"  
Maybe "lon insa tenpo pi lon ni" though I am not sure about using the  
spatial notion for time.  
  
What about: "tenpo ni la, o kama sona e jan Puta insa"?  
  
jan John E Clifford toki e ni:  
What does "kepeken" mean here? What do you use and for what? I take  
this to be a (quite appropriate) unpacking of all you may want to be  
free of, to be referred back to at a useful time. "Suffering" is  
presumably something involving "pakala," though no one seems to have  
worked out the details. Maybe just ' kama lon en moli li pakala e sina'  
  
en ni:  
sina poki e nimi Myoho-Renge- Kyo.  
?toki?  
  
Yes, I did mean to write "pakala" instead of "kepeken", and "toki"  
instead of "poki". I guess I went to fast and I got mixed up with these  
words which are quite close.  
  
  
jan John E Clifford toki e ni:  
sina wile kepeken ala tan ni la, sina wile lukin e lawa ale pi lon ale  
pi  
insa jan ale.  
Then 'sina wile ala e pakala ni la' 'LON insa jan ali' sina wile kama  
sona e suno LON insa sina la, SINA wile lukin e lawa ale pi lon ale pi  
LON insa jan ale. lawa ni nimi  
?'nimi pi lawa ni'?  
li Myoho-Renge- Kyo.  
?Mijowolenkikijo?  
  
Thank you for correcting my mistakes.  
I would not translate Myoho-Renge-Kyo. It is not translated into  
English, French or any other language. Though it is writen in a way it  
could be read in any language, toki pona hasn't got enough letters.  
However, your proposition isn't bad. It would be better to say  
"MijowolenKEkijo" to stay close to the japonese prononciation.  
  
  
jan John E Clifford toki e ni:  
sina kama sona e lawa ale pi lon ale pi insa jan ale la, sina poki e  
nimi Myoho-Renge- Kyo.  
?toki? The English seems to say the opposite: "If you chant the  
mantra, you will come to know the ..."  
  
You are right here. maybe it would be better to say:  
sina poki e nimi Myoho-Renge-Kyo (Mijowolenkekijo) la, sina kama sona e  
lawa ale...  
  
Thank you for the feed back.  
  
mi tawa.  
  
jan Yragaël (Ilakajeli? or Ilakajen?)