---
author: "yerricde"
date: 2002-05-12T19:54:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
The following is excerpted from an electronic mail exchange
between myself and Justin B. Rye, who let me pass it on to the
tokipona list. Rye is perhaps best known for his Espe-Ranto
([http://www.xibalba.demon.co.uk/jbr/ranto/](http://web.archive.org/web/20020409115207/http://www.xibalba.demon.co.uk/jbr/ranto.html)).

JBR wrote:


> Incidentally, I've got another conlanger writing to me with a
> pidginlike language that's trying to make do with a couple of
> hundred lexical roots, many of which I've been trying to convince
> him are redundant: "[http://www.medianet.pl/~andrew/l/ebubo.htm](http://web.archive.org/web/20021003161052/http://www.medianet.pl/~andrew/l/ebubo.htm)"
>
> Unfortunately his word-building scheme is anything but simple.
>
> \[snip\]
>
> The phonology looks fun. It makes my name pretty tricky to
> tokiponaise, though: Justin Rye = \[dZVstInrAI\] = \<tejasatenlai\>?
>
> And the lexicon seems nitpickproof so far, except I suppose that
> regardless of whether \<kolin\> is a proper noun or an adjective, you
> can still import a lot of undigested foreign technical terms like
> \<potasiumo\> this way. And who needs words for numerals when there
> are words for "one" and "and"?! (But what I do want to know is: are
> the numbers European-style pseudoadjectival things, or what?)
>
> But I'm still waiting to find out how many distinct word classes
> it's got, or whether its verbs have strict (lexical) valences, or
> what exactly you mean by oligosynthetic (it looks just plain
> isolating so far) or anything else like that. Ah, there are
> prepositions... there seems to be an accusative-marking
> prepositionoid too. It looks like the grammar is making at least a
> couple of compromises towards familiarity rather than minimalism 
> - the pronouns could all have been replaced by plain nouns meaning
> things like "person", the adjectives could all have been
> substantives in apposition, most prepositional functions could have
> been reduced to equivalents of "at the back of"... Oh, and I'm
> surprised by the reduplication of effort in having both
> sentence-initial adverbs and a divider particle before the verb 
> - wouldn't it have been simpler to make \<li\> the default form of a
> verbal auxiliary, \*replaced\* by any such adverb?
>
> The part I'm really waiting to find out about is what kinds of
> phrasal syntax it has - and particularly subordinate clauses. Or
> maybe it treats them as too complex and does everything
> coordinately? I could mention that one of my favourite exotic
> languages does just the reverse, eliminating coordinate clauses in
> favour of subordination. "Colin ate and drank" becomes in effect
>"(who-)ate, Colin drank", with a "nominative case" marker on the
>"ate" clause as well as on the noun phrase "Colin", since they both
> contain the same subject... utterly unfamiliar, but beautifully
> simple once you get your head round it!
>
> \[snip\]
>
> This reminds me of something I was thinking of putting on the web: a
> sort of phonemic substitution cipher for French that turns it into a
> totally unrecognisable language, useful for roleplayers:
>
> consonants /m n n^ b d g p t k v z Z f s S l r j/ \
> become /n r m S f s H x T t k p d g b Z l v/ \
> and vowels /i e E E~ y Y W W~ u o O O~ @ a A A~/ \
> become /a A & &? ue uE ui ui? e E i i? o O u u?/
>
>...so that, for instance \<allons enfants de la patrie\> becomes (to
> improvise an orthography) \<oyi'k u'du' fóyohoxlá\> and the name
> of the language is \<Dlu'gæ\>, or \<Dlu'gæk\> before a vowel. TokiPona
> should be much easier to do that to!
>
> \[later...\]
>
>> (But what I do want to know is: are the numbers European-style pseudoadjectival things, or what?)
>
> Apparently so. \
> I've always preferred alternative approaches like "three head-of
> bear" - though largely for pedantic reasons: "adult bears" are
> individually adult, but "three bears" are each singular.
>
>> It looks like the grammar is making at least a couple of
>> compromises towards familiarity rather than minimalism
>
>"Fun and cute" (for eurolanguage speakers) was one of the design
> goals. \
> The nouns-for-pronouns thing could be cute... in fact, abandoning
> first and second person in favour of personal names is \_too\_ cute.
>
>> The part I'm really waiting to find out about is what kinds of
>> phrasal syntax it has - and particularly subordinate clauses.
>> Or maybe it treats them as too complex and does everything
>> coordinately?
>
> Apparently so. Ever heard of "serial verb construction"?
> Well, except that that's (trivially) nesting, isn't it? Anyway,
> how does TP do stuff like the following?
>+ Colin said that he was happy (ah, here's the en-tp entry on "that"... fair enough)
>+ I want Colin to be happy (maybe "wile e" can take a whole clause as object?)
>+ Colin likes his dog as much as I like my cat (maybe "and I like my cat the same amount"?)
>+ I like the present which Colin gave me (I hope it doesn't reuse the question-word "which?")
>
> \[snip\]
>
>>> and it \*still\* hasn't reached the answers to any of
>>> my questions! Why do people build these hyperTOCified labyrinths
>>> when all the data would fit perfectly neatly on a single page?
>>
>> Because nobody complains. Unlike the UK, Canada and the US do
>> not meter local calls; thus, Internet users in Canada and the US
>> tend to browse online rather than offline.
>
> Well, the Toki Pona pages aren't all that bad, I just took a long
> time finding the contents-list page. But even during office
> lunchbreak surfing expeditions on umpteen-megabit connections I've
> found the one-paragraph-per-page format irritating for anything that
> naturally forms one long text; I'd almost always rather hit the
>"Page Down" key than click the "next page" link, if only because
> there's no need to hunt around for it!
>
> \[snip\]
>> May I forward your response to the [tokipona@yahoogroups.com]({{ '/' | relative_url }}) list?
>
> Feel free... though I really ought to start from scratch with
> comments on "http://www.tokipona.org" itself...
>
> \[later...\]
>
>> \*\*\* Why Toki Pona? \*\*\*
>>
>> \[...\]
>>
>> By being so general and vague, Toki Pona often lacks the ability to
>> distinguish finer shades of meaning. For example, by lumping every
>> possible bird species into one lexeme \<waso\>, we eliminate the need
>> to learn hundreds of vocabulary items, however we are also left
>> incapable of distinguishing between eagles and chickens. The closest
>> translation might be an expression like \<waso wawa\> strong bird or
>> \<waso nasa\> stupid bird.
>
> This is a solved problem: conlangs don't need to think up a million
> different words for beetle, just a word for bug and a quoting
> convention for anybody straying so far from the path of simplicity
> that they insist on specifying _Periplaneta_americana_!
>
>> \*\*\* Alphabet and Sounds \*\*\*
>>
>> \[...\]
>>
>> Every letter is always pronounced the same, regardless of what
>> comes before or after it.
>
> Er, except for the exceptions. Still, I suppose monoglot
> anglophones are going to find this concept of a biunique
> grapheme/phoneme mapping amazing enough that you're entitled to
> leave the concept of allophony until later.
>
>> p t k p as in pit, spit, or bit \
>> s t as in too, stew, or do
>
> Watch out, "stew" is a bad example-word, since some people pronounce
> it with lip-rounding and some with palatalisation (\[stu\]/\[stju\])...
>
>> The first syllable of a word can begin without a consonant.
>
> But otherwise vowel sequences aren't allowed? Are there ever
> arguments like the ones I've seen in Esperantoland about whether
> inter-word glottal stops are compulsory/optional/prohibited?
>
>> \*\*\* Lesson One \*\*\*
>>
>> \[...\]
>>
>>> \<jan li moku\> the person eats
>
> Presumably it's only in the subterranean dialects that this ever
> means "the Eloi are food".
>
>>> \<sina suli\> you are big/tall
>
> How about "Oh dear, you seem to have fallen down a thirty-foot well,
> are you alright?"
>
>> Note that verbs in Toki Pona do not distinguish between past,
>> present and future.
>
> Thus preventing an awful lot of pointless confusion in timetravel
> plots - "[http://www.xibalba.demon.co.uk/jbr/chrono.html](http://web.archive.org/web/20020819001835/http://www.xibalba.demon.co.uk/jbr/chrono.html)"...
>
>>> \<moku li pona \> the food was good \
>>> eating rocks
>
> Ooh, eating rocks, youch. What's the TP for "root canal job"?
>
>> \*\*\* Lesson Two \*\*\*
>>
>> \[...\]
>>
>>> \<jan suli ni\> this big person, this adult
>
> Of course it's slightly cheaty that "ni!" is more of a determiner
> than an adjective (in fact if it means both "this" and "that" it's
> more or less a generic determiner), and determiners naturally tack
> on to complete noun phrases. What would \<jan ni suli\> mean?
>
>>> \<tenpo suno pona\> a good day
>
> Better. And contrariwise \<tenpo pona suno\>, summer holiday.
>
>> \*\*\* Lesson Three \*\*\*
>>
>> \[...\]
>>
>> In a sentence like "I have water", we have added a direct object,
>> i.e. a word that receives the action of the verb have. In Toki Pona,
>> the direct object is preceded by the word \<e\>.
>
>"Have" and "see" strike me as poor examples of transitivity - unless
> of course TP-speakers have relapsed to an Aristotelean model of
> vision and really imagine their eyes projecting perception-beams at
> things (I'm not even going to start on the "having twins" bit).
>
>> \*\*\* Lesson Four \*\*\*
>> \[...\]
>> Actions
>>> \<kama\> to come, appear, arrive,
>>> happen
>
> Ah, there it is. The exercises have been assuming I knew the word
>"appear" right from lesson one.
>
>> \<tawa\> also means towards, to, for:
>> \> \<jan li jo e kili sin tawa sina\> \> Somebody has fresh veggies for you.
>
> Unfortunately TP's sloppy categories make this structurally ambiguous
> - \<kili sin tawa sina\> could be "your mobile fresh vegetables". Part
> of the problem is that \<tawa\> takes an object as a verb but not as a
> preposition 
> - \<jo tawa\> is really a compound verb with two objects.
>
>> \*\*\* Lesson Five \*\*\*
>>
>> \[...\]
>>
>>> \<ilo\> tool, device, machine
>
> Is this allowed to be a verb? (I always love confusing Esperantists
> with the infinitive \<ili\>...)
>
>> en can also be used to combine multiple one-word nouns:
>
> What about multiple multi-word subjects? I see an example in
> the en-tp lexicon (under "and") where they're split up by \<la\>,
> but that only works if there's an adverbial phrase at the start!
>
>> \*\*\* Lesson Six \*\*\*\> \[...\]
>>> \<sina wile ala kama\> You don't want to come.
>
> How about "must not come" (and "needn't come")?
>
>>> \<mije nasa ni li pali pona ala e ijo\>
>>> That crazy guy doesn't do things well.
>
> But he does do things - note that the negation is localised to the
>"well", not applied to the entire phrase.
>
>> \*\*\* Lesson Seven \*\*\*
>>
>> \[...\]
>>
>>> \<ale\> they, all, everything, everybody, complete, whole
>
> I note that as a pronoun it means "everybody individually" rather
> than "the entire thing"...
>
>>> \<mama\> father, mother, parent
>
> Hurrah for sanity and down with Zamenhof.
>
>> \<mi lon ala\> I am not present.
>
> Much less silly when you remember it's non-tense-specific.
>
>> Note that jo to have, contain can also express location.
>
> This wide range from abstract ownership to physical containment
>(\<iki li jo e tomo\> and \<tomo li jo e iki\>) seems risky...
>
>> \<soweli suli li ken lon tomo sina\>
>> Large mammals are allowed in your house.
>
> The same "can/can" as in English?
>
>> \*\*\* Lesson Eight \*\*\*
>>
>> \[...\]
>>
>>> \<iki li suli ala suli?\> It is not-big / big? Is it big?
>
> Well, it makes me squirm, but it's nicely in character.
> Oh, I've run out.
>
> ***
> JBRAnkh kak!
> (Ancient Egyptian blessing)