---
author: "yerricde"
date: 2002-05-27T04:11:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 2
---
The following is Justin B. Rye's response to [http://groups.yahoo.com/group/tokipona/message/43](#post2)

Damian Yerrick wrote:
> Sonja Elen Kisa wrote a response to the comments I forwarded.
> I'd recommend that you join the list.

Sorry, my reply lag limits my ability to take part in group
discussions at the best of times (and I've never been keen on
web-based mailsystems like Yahoo's).

Sonja Elen Kisa wrote:
>Justin B Rye wrote:
>> And who needs words for numerals when there are words for "one" 
>> and "and"?! (But what I do want to know is: are the numbers 
>> European-style pseudoadjectival things, or what?)
>
> The standard numerals are: \
> wan = 1 \
> tu = 2 \
> mute = 2 or more \

Wow, that's even more "simple and cute" than Watership Down Lapine!

>> Oh, and I'm surprised by the reduplication of effort in having both
>> sentence-initial adverbs and a divider particle before the verb - wouldn't it
>> have been simpler to make \<li\> the default form of a verbal auxiliary,
>> \*replaced\* by any such adverb?
>
> That's a really great idea. Unfortunately, it wouldn't work in practise.

No, you're right, I wasn't thinking of this kind of major
contentful adverbial phrase (I was assuming it was just
some kind of tense/mode/aspect marker).


> I saw the man whom you love. \
> \<mi lukin e mije. sina olin e iki.\>

A bit limiting, but plenty of real languages get by with something
similar.

> I want Colin to be happy. <\mi wile e ni: jan Kolin li pilin pona.\>

For some reason this obvious answer hadn't occurred to me.

> Or, much better, you could say: \
> \<jan Kolin li pana e ijo pona tawa mi.\> \
> Colin gave something good to me.
> 
> The "pona" with "tawa mi" properly translates the "liking", and the
> "pana e ijo" properly translates the gift (giving).

Pretty neat, but can it be switched round the other way so that the
liking is the main verb and the given-by-Colin is a modifier?

\<ijo pana tan jan Kolin li pona tawa mi\>, maybe?

> Comparisons
>
> Comparisons are difficult to pull off in Toki Pona. And not without
> reason: TP is a "percieving" language, not a "judging" one.

All language works by making distinctions  - between "true" and "false", 
between "dog" and "person", between \<e\> and \<i\>  - and once you've 
got that, the only choice a designer's got is whether the language allows
for fine distinctions or whether speakers are going to be forced into 
absolutism. After all, "Colin likes his dog as much as I like my cat"
is hardly an invidious value-judgement.

> (Hey, I'm an ENFP!)

That would be a new word for "Californian", right?

>> Well, the Toki Pona pages aren't all that bad, I just took a long time
>> finding the contents-list page. But even during office lunchbreak surfing
>> expeditions on umpteen-megabit connections I've found the one-paragraph-per-page
>> format irritating for anything that naturally forms one long text; I'd almost
>> always rather hit the "Page Down" key than click the "next page" link, if only
>> because there's no need to hunt around for it!
>
>Thanks for the design feedback! Are you suggesting I reduce the fontsize on tokipona.org?

Oh, no - if that had bothered me I could just have wound down the
display scale. The issue is where the happy medium lies between
1) the "war\_and\_peace.html" approach to site design (lots of text on one page which takes forever to load) and
2) the "click here for next paragraph" approach (a lot of mousework if you're going to read the whole thing).
I've always preferred something a lot closer to (1) than seems to be
the fashion among web designers, since (as I said) I find scrolling
down a lot handier than clicking "next". My habits are also partly
a result of my tenuous web access - my ideal would be for
"war\_and\_peace.html" to be divided into fairly large chunks,
starting with a full contents list, so I can get "chapter9.html"
downloaded before I reach the end of "chapter8.html" (and thus
needn't do all my reading online).

> Yes, like in any natural language, there are allophones.

Yup; the sign of a well-designed "easy" conlang is that it has
\*more\* allophony than a natlang.

>> Of course it's slightly cheaty that "ni!" is more of a determiner
>> than an adjective (in fact if it means both "this" and "that" it's
>> more or less a generic determiner), and determiners naturally tack
>> on to complete noun phrases. What would \<jan ni suli\>
>> mean?
>
> "jan ni suli" sounds ungrammatical to me.

Well, English certainly has equivalent ordering restrictions, 
and \<jan ni suli\> wouldn't mean anything usefully different from
\<jan suli ni\>, but in principle you could declare that as fa
ras TP is concerned "this big black dog", "this black big dog"
and "black big this dog" are in free variation.

>>> jan li jo e kili sin tawa sina
>>> Somebody has fresh veggies for you.
>>
>> Unfortunately TP's sloppy categories make this structurally ambiguous
>> \<kili sin tawa sina\> could be "your mobile fresh vegetables".
>
> You are right that "tawa" can create the syntactical ambiguity of
> "going" (verb) or "moving" (adjective), but in practise this never
> happens. In complex contexts, "tawa" is almost always a verb.
> Although gramatically possible, the idea of "mobile vegetables" is just
> illogical in real usage. A TP speaker would naturally simplify such an
> idea to just "vegetables", since vegetables are always assumed to be
> mobile.

I think "mobile domicile" for "car/automobile" is riskier, but then
again when is a house going to be followed by the preposition
"towards"?


> Another way to unambiguously combine multi-word subjects is with "en" markers: \
> en tenpo suno en tenpo pimeja\
> and sun-time and dark-time\
> day and night

That introductory \<en\> sidesteps the problems I was expecting.

>>> Note that jo to have, contain can also express location.
>> This wide range from abstract ownership to physical containment
>> (\<iki li jo e tomo\> and \<tomo li jo e iki\>) seems risky...
>
> I don't think so.
>
> mi jo e tomo. \
> I have a house. \
> I own a house.
>
> tomo li jo e mi. \
> The house has me. \
> The house contains me. I'm in the house.
>
> It throws Western concepts of possession out the window. If I think I
> own something, I should also remember that it also owns me.

(We happen to have an overlap of belief systems there - I hate
owning things.)

> The idea is parallel:
> If I "have" a book, it is in my hands at the moment.

This hardly applies to "having" a house, though, even when
the deeds to the property are on your person!

> If a house "has" a person, he or she is in its rooms at the moment. \
> The truth is there is no real "abstract ownership" in TP mentality.

This is why I find it a bit hard to believe that they'd translate
our unfamiliar concept of permanent exclusive ownership into these
terms! If they're accustomed to wandering in and out of shared
temporary domiciles, surely they \*wouldn't\* see a connection between
\<tomo li jo e mi\> "I'm in the house" and \<mi jo e telo\> "I have
water"? Unless I've drunk the water, that is. I was expecting
possessives to have some connection with the preposition "of", or
perhaps a Latin-style "est mihi" (there-is to-me).

And secondarily, it seems odd that you're so thoroughly associating
"having" property with "having" legs or a mother or a nationality -
many of the languages TP most resembles split it up into two
different kinds of "possessive". That's not necessarily worth
emulating, but I'm surprised that TP doesn't at least stick with
the western European standard model, where "having" is a general
concept of association, with ownership as one specialised sense.

>>> \<soweli suli li ken lon tomo sina\>
>>> Large mammals are allowed in your house.
>>
>> The same "can/can" as in English?
>
> What do you mean by can/can?

"Can" as in have-the-power-to ("rhinos can walk straight through
locked doors") and "can" as in be-permitted-to ("you can't come
in!"). It's a perfectly reasonable merger, of course, they both
imply an absence of restrictions.

>> There is already a section for "can" in
>> http://tokipona.org/en-tp.php#c
>> I hope it will answer your question.

I'll admit I hadn't read that page very thoroughly.

***
JBRAnkh kak!
(Ancient Egyptian blessing)