---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-12-05T15:09:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Well, the trl of 'Novgorod' is obvious only if you know some Russian, which most English speakers do not; even 'New Gorod' is pushing it too far.  And 'nu' of course does mean 'new' in English, though here I suspect that it is being used only phonetically, which I take it is your point.I don't follow your exposition of reductio, mainly, I suspect, because of the polysemy of the words used: 'a unit brings a mental thing to system using many words using systematic words.'   But, in any case, I don't see where 'many words' comes in. 12pt;"
>-----
 Original Message ----
From: Matthew Martin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
>To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent): Wednesday, December 5, 2007 7:38:36 AMSubject: Re: \[tokipona\] «New England» li seme lon toki pona?
>How many (or few) people in the world know what "York" means so as to
> understand "ma sin pi soweli pi kon jaki"?Maybe \*"reducio ad absurdum" hasn't been translated into toki poka yet. Sigh.More examples:Novgorod. Russian town, always transliterated into English, althoughobviously means "New City"Nuyorican. Portmanteau of New York an Puerto Rican. The "nu" part ispurely phonetic and doesn't mean new in Spanish or English.mi tawa, jan Matthew Martinreducio ad absurdum: wan li kama nasin e ijo pilin kepeken nimi mutekepeken nimi nasinOn Dec 5, 2007 3:33 AM, Helmut Voigt <akesi\_palisa@ yahoo.de
> wrote:

>>>>>>> ali o, toki!
> How many (or few) people in the world know what "York" means so as to
> understand "ma sin pi soweli pi kon jaki"? mi kin pilin e ni: ma tomo Nujoku
> anu ma tomo Nujo li pona. The usual way seems to be to translate
> geographical names if their components are obvious, such as "New Zealand" to
> German "Neuseeland" . In Chinese, only "new" is translated as "xin" while
> "Zealand" is written phonetically a "Xilan" resulting in "Xin Xilan".
> pona,
> jan Elumutu
>> Matthew Martin <matt@suburbandestin y.com
> schrieb:
> Looking for last minute shopping deals? Find them fast with Yahoo! Search.