---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-12-05T15:23:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Thanks.  Also 'kama nasa' apparently.-----
 Original Message ----
From: Matthew Martin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
>To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent): Wednesday, December 5, 2007 9:16:51 AMSubject: Re: \[tokipona\] «New England» li seme lon toki pona?I had in mind this gloss: "one makes the feeling thing crazy with manywords with crazy words"Or, "one makes ideas absurd with lengthy discussion and nonsense. "oops, I mean "nimi nasa" not "nimi nasin"reducio ad absurdum: wan li kama nasin e ijo pilin kepeken nimi mutekepeken nimi \*nasa\*I'm not sure if there is a quick way to say "to argue by assumingsomething is true, then demonstrating that such an assumption leads toa ridiculous conclusion and thereby showing the original propositionto be false," since I can't even say that briefly in English.On Dec 5, 2007 10:09 AM, John E Clifford <kali9putra@yahoo. com
> wrote:

>> Well, the trl of 'Novgorod' is obvious only if you know some Russian, which
> most English speakers do not; even 'New Gorod' is pushing it too far. And
> 'nu' of course does mean 'new' in English, though here I suspect that it is
> being used only phonetically, which I take it is your point.
> I don't follow your exposition of reductio, mainly, I suspect, because of
> the polysemy of the words used: 'a unit brings a mental thing to system
> using many words using systematic words.' But, in any case, I don't see
> where 'many words' comes in.
>>>> -----
 Original Message ----

> From: Matthew Martin <matt@suburbandestin y.com
>> To: tokipona@yahoogroup s.com
> Sent: Wednesday, December 5, 2007 7:38:36 AM
> Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] «New England» li seme lon toki pona?
>>>>> 
>How many (or few) people in the world know what "York" means so as to
> 
> understand "ma sin pi soweli pi kon jaki"?
>> Maybe \*"reducio ad absurdum" hasn't been translated into toki poka yet.
> Sigh.
>> More examples:
>> Novgorod. Russian town, always transliterated into English, although
> obviously means "New City"
>> Nuyorican. Portmanteau of New York an Puerto Rican. The "nu" part is
> purely phonetic and doesn't mean new in Spanish or English.
>> mi tawa, jan Matthew Martin
>> reducio ad absurdum: wan li kama nasin e ijo pilin kepeken nimi mute
> kepeken nimi nasin
>> On Dec 5, 2007 3:33 AM, Helmut Voigt <akesi\_palisa@ yahoo.de
> wrote:

> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> ali o, toki!
> 
> How many (or few) people in the world know what "York" means so as to
> 
> understand "ma sin pi soweli pi kon jaki"? mi kin pilin e ni: ma tomo
> Nujoku
> 
> anu ma tomo Nujo li pona. The usual way seems to be to translate
> 
> geographical names if their components are obvious, such as "New Zealand"
> to
> 
> German "Neuseeland" . In Chinese, only "new" is translated as "xin" while
> 
> "Zealand" is written phonetically a "Xilan" resulting in "Xin Xilan".
> 
> pona,
> 
> jan Elumutu
> 
>> 
> Matthew Martin <matt@suburbandesti n y.com
> schrieb:
> 
>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_
> Looking for last minute shopping deals? Find them fast with Yahoo! Search.
> Be a better friend, newshound, and know-it-all with Yahoo! Mobile. Try it now.