---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2009-01-11 19:59:44 UTC
nestinglevel: 2
---
Who's "we" who don't mind ...? mi wile e ni: jan mute mute li kama sona li kepeken e toki pona. mi lape la mi pilin e ni: jan sin li kama lon li kama sona e toki pi nanpa wan. toki ni li toki pona. tenpo kama la, ona li ken kama sona e toki ante kin. That would be the first native tp speaker 8-)) who at some time could tell us which words/notions to add and which to delete to make tp a really and easily usable language.  
tenpo sike sin o pana e pona tawa jan ali.  
jan Elumutu  
  
  
\--- jan\_sewe <\*\*\*@laposte.net> schrieb am Sa, 10.1.2009:  
  
Von: jan\_sewe <\*\*\*@laposte.net>  
Betreff: \[tokipona\] Re: toki pona chatterbot  
An: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Datum: Samstag, 10. Januar 2009, 23:29  

> [_Post by andrew49097_](/QjoEURMC/toki-pona-chatterbot#post1)  
> Hello,  
> I have an idea that I thought would be helpful for those learning  
> toki pona. I believe that if a chatterbot is generated with toki pona  
> communication abilities, it would provide good practice for those  
> interested in learning the language, and would ultimately lead more  
> people to more experience with the language. People could practice  
> their knowledge, since face it, not many people know toki pona as of  
> now. Maybe add this to the site. What does everyone else think?  
> yan, Andi  
> 

We don't mind if only a few people can speak Toki Pona. It's often an  
nice advantage when you don't mean to be understood by too many. But  
I'm not sure a robot would be a fine TP speaker - not to say anything  
about violating strongly the very spirit of this language...  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]