---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2009-02-28T12:59:28+00:00
nestinglevel: 4
---
jan Sewe o, toki!  
Without having "native" toki pona speakers, it will never be possible to confirm or falsify Sapir/Whorf's hypothesis. As a German interpreter of Arabic and English interpreting at Berlin schools more or less difficult discussions between teachers, parents and pupils of non-German origin, I dare say that learning toki pona first would not in the least make anybody unable to master other languages soon after. I know dozens of Arab children who talk in good Arabic with their parents and good German with their teachers or nurses. So, I don't think that learning toki pona first would be in any way disadvantageous. Besides,  toki pona is so easy that even a child of 1 1/2 years (maybe) could easily start to express him/herself better than using baby English/German/any other language. If this assumption were correct, it might lead to revolutionary changes in the views to speech-learning in early childhood. But without testing, we will probably never know  
whether toki pona is or is not the ideal tool for (linguistic) understanding between adults and small children.  
Just as not being misunderstood: of course, children have also be taught the native language of their country before going to school. But at home, toki pona is "pona mute tawa mi".  
jan Elumutu  
   
jan\_sewe <\*\*\*@laposte.net> schrieb am Mo, 12.1.2009:  
  
Von: jan\_sewe <\*\*\*@laposte.net>  
Betreff: \[tokipona\] Re: toki pona chatterbot  
An: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Datum: Montag, 12. Januar 2009, 0:45  

> [_Post by Helmut Voigt_](/QjoEURMC/toki-pona-chatterbot#post3)  
> mi wile e ni: jan mute mute li kama sona li kepeken e toki pona. mi  
> 

lape la mi pilin e ni: jan sin li kama lon li kama sona e toki pi  
nanpa wan. toki ni li toki pona. tenpo kama la, ona li ken kama sona e  
toki ante kin. That would be the first native tp speaker 8-)) who at  
some time could tell us which words/notions to add and which to delete  
to make tp a really and easily usable language.  

> [_Post by Helmut Voigt_](/QjoEURMC/toki-pona-chatterbot#post3)  
> tenpo sikeÂ sin o pana e pona tawa jan ali.  
> jan Elumutu  
> 

Your dream that people learn TP as their first language might get a  
symbolic interpretation - maybe you'd like everyone to have good  
thoughts. Now, do you really think it would be a nice thing to do to  
raise children exclusively in Toki Pona - as this could make them  
unable to learn a more complex language?  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]