---
author: "jan_sewe"
date: 2009-03-31 22:32:14 UTC
nestinglevel: 5
---
jan Elumutu o, toki!  
  
Children who grew up in a forest among the monkeys up to the age of twelve have notoriously become unable to further learn any language for the rest of their lives (me Tarzan, you Jane). No doubt that similar consequences would hold for pure native Toki Pona speakers, as regards ability to master any more complex language.  
  
But do we actually need to conduct such a crazy experiment to have confirmation of Sapir-Whorf's hypothesis? Whenever we express ourselves in Toki Pona, our range of thoughts gets noticeably smaller within dramatic proportions... Fortunately, we may always use another language whenever we need to clear up a missing detail!  
  
However I'd bet that, one day, there will be indeed some crazy men who wish to bring up pure native Toki Pona speakers completely isolated from any other language. And maybe even today, someone has already on their mind the mad project of becoming the guru of such a Toki Pona sect: all members would have to use Toki Pona exclusively, except perhaps the guru and a few privileged others who'd be allowed to communicate with each other in English or in Esperanto... :-)  
  
Toki Pona is a very pleasant language to use, for all the reasons that we've all experienced. But I'm afraid that it might get used, someday, for gaining control over somewhat fragile minds...  
  
mi tawa.  
  
jan Sewe  

> [_Post by Helmut Voigt_](/QjoEURMC/toki-pona-chatterbot#post7)  
> jan Sewe o, toki!  
> Without having "native" toki pona speakers, it will never be possible to confirm or falsify Sapir/Whorf's hypothesis. As a German interpreter of Arabic and English interpreting at Berlin schools more or less difficult discussions between teachers, parents and pupils of non-German origin, I dare say that learning toki pona first would not in the least make anybody unable to master other languages soon after. I know dozens of Arab children who talk in good Arabic with their parents and good German with their teachers or nurses. So, I don't think that learning toki pona first would be in any way disadvantageous. Besides,  toki pona is so easy that even a child of 1 1/2 years (maybe) could easily start to express him/herself better than using baby English/German/any other language. If this assumption were correct, it might lead to revolutionary changes in the views to speech-learning in early childhood. But without testing, we will probably never know  
> whether toki pona is or is not the ideal tool for (linguistic) understanding between adults and small children.  
> Just as not being misunderstood: of course, children have also be taught the native language of their country before going to school. But at home, toki pona is "pona mute tawa mi".  
> jan Elumutu  
>