---
author: "Noah"
date: 2007-07-23T00:09:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
No need to attack anyone. I'd say she has a right to speak her mind about this,as it is writtenin the language she created.
>why in hell is
> that text any more 'bad' than all the other stupid shit on there?Do you mean on Pije's website? Or the internet in general? Cuz to argue againstthe latter ispretty ridiculous.jan Nona---
 Christoph Mewes <[fossi@iname.com](mailto://fossi@iname.com)\
> wrote:

> toki.
>> Having disagreed with pije frequently over the last couple of years, this timei've gotta say
> this whole discussion is pretty damn stupid.
> I for example feel equally offended by most religious groups whatsoever. Hemade pretty clear
> why he had that text on that page and while i mostly disagree with hisarguments, why in hell is
> that text any more 'bad' than all the other stupid shit on there?
>> Welcome to the internet and get a life,
> Fossi.
>>> 
> Using hate speech in any language is very sad. It is also illegal in
> 
> many countries. I would like to ask you to remove racist and
> 
> antisemitic content from your website, jan Pije, simply out of respect
> 
> for the great numbers of people it will hurt.
> 
>> 
> I assumed you translated this content to Toki Pona to demonstrate a
> 
> point... that Toki Pona, like any language, can be used for any
> 
> purpose, even negative ones. But I think inciting hatred against
> 
> already oppressed minorities is a direct and serious danger, and no
> 
> laughing matter, or nothing to be taken lightly.
> 
>> 
> I would like to personally ask you to remove this content. I am aware
> 
> that you can do whatever you want in any language you want. You are a
> 
> free person. You should also be careful that you are not violating
> 
> your ISP's or web host's terms of service by disseminating hate speech.
> 
>> 
> o pona a.
> 
>> 
> jan Sonja
> 
> mama pi toki pona
> 
>> 
> ---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "B. J. Knight" <bknight009@...
> wrote:

> 
> 
>> 
> 
> Hey, everyone.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> Yes, I translated one of the texts that followers of the Creativity
> 
> 
> Movement believe in.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> How is this "misuse of Toki Pona"? Toki Pona is a language. It
> 
> 
> expresses ideas.
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> Yahoo! Groups Links
> 
>> 
>> 
>>> 
>>>> --

> We've Got Your Name at [http://www.mail.com](http://www.mail.com)!
> Get a FREE E-mail Account Today - Choose From 100+ Domains
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\\\_\_\_\_Shape Yahoo! in your own image. Join our Network Research Panel today! [http://surveylink.yahoo.com/gmrs/yahoo_panel_invite.asp?a=7](http://surveylink.yahoo.com/gmrs/yahoo_panel_invite.asp?a=7)