---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-04-13T13:25:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
First, a linguistic point. All direct objects in tp are introduced by "e." Thisis simplydefinitional. The question is, what words related to various verbs are to betreated as directobjects. Clearly the fact that the corresponding expression in English (orEsperanto)is a directobject is not enough. The "affected" rule (the source of which I cannot find atthe moment)isprobably too stringent (if it makes any sense at all). I think the best thingis to learn theconventions for each word separately (or to divide them into finer classes whichbehave more orless the same). Otherwise, if we really want general rules that ape English,say, we get even moreambiguity than before: if "mi toki e toki pona" can mean "I talked about tp" and"I talked in tp"and "I said 'tp'" (for example) we put a considerable strain on context to sortthings out, since,in most contexts, each of these makes sense.The "affected" rule may be fatuous (though I think it is merely vague and poorlyexpressed) but itdoes point in a certain direction which motivates more precise rules forparticular cases (orclasses of cases). To be sure. the object of "lukin" is no more affected bybeing seen than thecomplement of "toki" (if that is the way to talk about something) is by beingtalked about, butthat merely means that "lukin" and "toki" are different (there is nothing likelooking aboutsomething or looking in a language, for example --
 though there may be someother notion thatworks as complementary).As for the prepositional features of some verbs, it is just that some {"all"?}prepositions arederived from verbs that take a complement and that under certain circumstances(filling in a gapin the definition) gets shifted (see the definition of "tawa" for example). Thatis, talking abouta suppressed preposition is getting things backward --
 in tp terms, never mindwhat it looks likein English.That being said, it does seem that there are advantages to using moreprepositions to break upsome of the meaning clusters. As noted here and there, "mi toki (pi) tokipona" for "I speak tp"might better be "mi toki kepeken toki pona" thus disambiguating the "toki X"frame. Whether wewant to also go on to "mi toki sike toki pona" (or some other preposition) for"I talk about tp"uys a not quite separate issue (since if we did that, we could us "toki (pi)toki pona" for "speaktp," a more logical use of the complement in this case --
 and very easy forEsperantists).Note that the "pi" issue is still unresolved in all this and is clearly separate(another set ofrules to learn for verbs or classes of them --
 happily, with only 120 words, notall of themusually verbs, learning the rules is feasible).