---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-09-04T15:26:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
There are at least two other trats back in the archives, one going on for awhile, and severalBabels. We need --
 in the course of setting up our corpus --
 to do a King James"all previoustranslation compared and revised." or however it goes.---
 palakonoli <[palakonoli@yahoo.com](mailto://palakonoli@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

> When Zamenhof created Esperanto, he found it very important to
> translate the Bible. When I see Toki Pona, I think one of the
> least important things to translate would be the Bible...
>> But I'll do it anyway, just for the sake of practicing my Toki Pona.
> Of course not the entire Bible... only the first 5 verses. I'd
> really appreciate your correcting my mistakes.
>>> So here is King James:
>> 1 In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.
> 2 And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon
> the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of
> the waters.
> 3 And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.
> 4 And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light
> from the darkness.
> 5 And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night.
> And the evening and the morning were the first day.
>>>> Here is Zamenhof:
>> 1 En la komenco Dio kreis la cxielon kaj la teron.
> 2 Kaj la tero estis senforma kaj dezerta, kaj mallumo estis super la
> abismo; kaj la spirito de Dio sxvebis super la akvo.
> 3 Kaj Dio diris: Estu lumo; kaj farigxis lumo.
> 4 Kaj Dio vidis la lumon, ke gxi estas bona; kaj Dio apartigis
> la lumon de la mallumo.
> 5 Kaj Dio nomis la lumon Tago, kaj la mallumon Li nomis Nokto. Kaj
> estis vespero, kaj estis mateno, unu tago.
>>>> And here is me:
>> 1 tenpo pini mute mute la jan sewi li pali e sewi e ma.
> 2 ma li pakala li pimeja. kon pi jan sewi li tawa lon sewi telo."pakala" is nice for tohu bohu or whatever. I am not sure that this is sewitelo, but I don'tknow what "deep" is.
> 3 jan sewi li toki e ni: suno o lon (or: mi wile e suno). suno li
> lon.or "o suno li lon" (there is no Light to address beforehand)
> 4 jan sewi li lukin e suno. suno li pona. jan sewi li tu e suno tan
> pimeja.
> 5 jan sewi li pana e nimi "suno" tawa suno e nimi "pimeja" tawa
> pimeja. pimeja en suno li tenpo suno pi nanpa wan.
>>>>