---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-09-04T16:07:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Thanks this pageDankon (I can read it but can't remember how to write it)pona tawa lipu ni---
 Marek Blahus <[marek@blahus.cz](mailto://marek@blahus.cz)\
> wrote:

> \[en Esperanto sube; kepeken toki pona lon anpa\]
>> \[en\]
> Hi, the idea of a Bible translation in toki pona seems to be appearing
> here over and over again. So maybe we should really gather a group of
> volunteers and start a common project, to move things further? I have
> created the following page which resumes the attempts made so far:
> [http://tokipona.wikia.com/wiki/lipu_sewi_Pipija](http://tokipona.wikia.com/wiki/lipu_sewi_Pipija)\
> What do you think of starting a cooperation on the topic? This goes
> especially to Samir, Stephen Todd Pope and Oli, but also to all others
> who might be interested.
>> \[eo\]
> Saluton, la ideo de traduko de Biblio en tokipono sxajnas cxiam
> reaperadi. Do eble ni starigu grupon de volontuloj kaj eku komunan
> projekton por antauxenigi la aferon? Mi kreis la jenan pagxon kiu donas
> resumon pri la gxisnunaj provoj:
> [http://tokipona.wikia.com/wiki/lipu_sewi_Pipija](http://tokipona.wikia.com/wiki/lipu_sewi_Pipija)\
> Kion vi pensas pri eki kunlaboron pri la temo? Tio cxi celatas speciale
> al Samir, Stephen Todd Pope kaj Oli, sed ankaux cxiuj aliaj kiuj povus
> interesigxi.
>> \[x-tokipona\]
> toki! tenpo mute la jan li wile pana e lipu sewi Pipija tawa toki pona.
> tan ni la mi pilin e ni: sina wile ala wile pana e lon tawa pali kulupu?
> pali kulupu ni li ken pona e ijo. lipu ni li tan mi li toki e ni: jan
> seme li wile pana e lipu sewi Pipija tawa toki pona lon tenpo pini:
> [http://tokipona.wikia.com/wiki/lipu_sewi_Pipija](http://tokipona.wikia.com/wiki/lipu_sewi_Pipija)\
> pali kulupu pi lipu sewi Pipija la sina pilin e seme? mi wile toki tawa
> jan Sami, jan Stephen Todd Pope en jan Oli. taso jan ante li wile pali
> kulupu la ona li ken kute kin.
>> jan Male
>> palakonoli wrote:

> 
> When Zamenhof created Esperanto, he found it very important to
> 
> translate the Bible. When I see Toki Pona, I think one of the
> 
> least important things to translate would be the Bible...
> 
>> 
> But I'll do it anyway, just for the sake of practicing my Toki Pona.
> 
> Of course not the entire Bible... only the first 5 verses. I'd
> 
> really appreciate your correcting my mistakes.
>