---
author: "Sonja Elen Kisa"
date: 2002-10-30T16:52:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
The best solution I foresee so far is to accept "ali" as an equalvariant of "ale".This would represent a very natural language change. Rather thanintroducing a whole new foreign word (like "sanpu") or even adding a newletter as an appendage to an already existing word (like "mala" or"alen"), the "e" of "ale" itself would naturally tend to migrate as faraway from "a" as possible to avoid confusion with "ala"... which wouldbring it to "ali". Stuff like this happens in every language.The polls are currently 40% for keeping "ale/ala" and 60% for change. Iwill wait another 1-2 days to see if any new voters come or if anybodywants to change their mind. I will not make any drastic changes to TokiPona with both sides so close to one another.But if the final results are similar to the current ones, I am inclinedto keep both "ale" and "ala". I would also introduce "ali" as a variantof "ale". There would be no Right and Wrong. TP users would be free touse whichever pronunciation variant (ale or ali) they desire for "all".ale li pona! ali li pona!This would allow nature to take its course. At some point in time, maybein one year, one of the forms may become unused. Maybe nobody will usethe still-born "ali" and it will be safe to get rid of it. Maybe underthe popularity of "ali", "ale" will become an endangered species, and itwill be safe to call it archaic.This solution would let aleists keep using their "ale", and promoters ofchange to use "ali".This sort of thing is very common in languages. In English, there ismore than one correct way of pronouncing many words: either, potato,aunt, crayon. Sometimes this is based on demographics, but often it isnot.Any opinions on this idea?