---
author: "Corey"
date: 2004-08-14T02:01:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Hey everyone,Well, I think I'll give a quick overview of my latest project, whatI think will be the ultimate test for Toki Pona's simplicity.I have recently convinced my brother (11 years old) to study TokiPona with me for use in the countless times when we need to conversewithout being understood. He absolutely loathes grammar in general,and has never desired to study a foreign language despite all myattempts to change his mind. I will admit that it took no smallamount of bribery (I'll play and enjoy your favorite video game withyou if...) and convincing (It's easy! I swear! And think of all theinsults we can hurl at people with them being none the wiser!) toget him to accept.I've given him a few lessons on pronunciation and slowly been spoon-feeding him the lessons on Pije's site. The first phrase I taughthim was "toki pona li pona tawa mi". I told him it in passing, hadhim repeat it for pronunciation practice, then forgot it. To mycomplete surprise, ten minutes later he walked up to me, grinned,and said, "toki pona li pona tawa mi!". If my brother can remember aphrase like that for more than ten minutes, anyone can learn TokiPona.I am very happy that he is actually enjoying the language, but ithas been a strong test of my patience as he constantly forgetswords. My dream is to someday be at a level where we can quickly andfluently speak with each other about things that could otherwise beoverheard. Although I know this goal could be quite far away, I hopethat in the long run it will help us.Anyways, that was just a quick report to show taht if my brotherwants to learn TP, then ANYONE should be able to do it easily. I maydecide to give a report in a few weeks about his progress.mi tawa!-jan Kowijan lawa pi lipu "www.tokipona.bravehost.com"o lukin e lipu mi!