---
author: "frpeterjackson"
date: 2004-08-14T13:12:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), Philip Newton <philip.newton@g...
>wrote:

> On Fri, 13 Aug 2004 22:28:22 -0700, Jonathon Blake
> <jonathon.blake@g...
> wrote:

> 
> An Office Suite, or other software, that has \_everything\_ in Toki
> 
> Pona. Help files, documentation, skin,etc.
>> Um. I don't think that would be usable.
>> Documenting things require that you be precise. Toki Pona is notabout
> being precise. It's about "the simple things of life".
>> Being vague is built into the language - "pona" means "good" aswell
> as "simple", for example, and that's (to me) just one example ofwhat
> makes it very easy to utter vague platitudes such as "ale li pona"but
> hard to differentiate precise shades of meaning.
>> I believe that it may be possible by connecting enough wordstogether
> to shrink the range of possible meanings to what you want tospecify,
> but that would make things so verbose that you would have to readvery
> much text, which may not even fit into the screen layout of theoffice
> software.
>> How would you say "file", for example? "ijo pi awen ijo" - "thingfor
> keeping things"?
>> So basically, I think you'd either have to be vague or be verbose.(Or
> use tons of foreign words, which kind of undermines the spirit ofToki
> Pona.)
>> Cheers,
> --

> Philip Newton <philip.newton@g...
>One of the joys of Toki Pona is finding ways to say things in just afew words, and sometimes it's surprising how few words it takes. Iknow that the idea behind TP was to make it all but impossible toexpress subtleties, but I keep finding that TP is capable of morethan we usually credit it with.toki pona li ken toki e nimi pi toki Inli kepeken nimi mute lililili. ni li pana e pilin pona tawa mi. tenpo mute la jan li kenkepeken e nimi tu anu tu wan taso. jan li pali e toki pona tawa ni:jan pi toki pona li ken ala toki e ijo pi pilin suli. taso mi kamajo e ni: toki pona li ken pali e mute. jan mute li pilin e ni: tokipona li ken pali e lili taso.BTW, "file" can be simply "kulupu lipu".jan Pita