---
author: "kurum3@aol.com"
date: 2003-03-02T21:44:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I think the biggest thing I've noticed is that you have put many of your prepositional phrases before the "e + direct object" stuff.For example, you said "ona li toki tawa mi e ni".  I would recommend that you say "ona li toki e ni tawa mi" instead.What do you mean when you say "kama la" like in your sentence "kama la ona li sona ala." If you were wanting to express something that happened in the future, I suggest "tenpo kama la," but I'm not so sure that that is what you were trying to say there.What did you mean by "mi tawa e luka mi tawa mi." I think that that means "I gave my hand to myself," but is that what you were wanting to say?When you said "mi tawa e lawa mi" and other very similar phrases, were you trying to say, "I moved my head"? You used that phrase a good deal, and I was just wondering, because I don't think most people usually talk about people turning their heads that much.When you said, "ona li toki tawa mi 'su jan Linalanesoni,'" I would've said "ona li toki e ni tawa mi: 'su jan Linalanesoni.'" It looks like you fixed this on some similar situations later in the story.What did you mean by "ken la nimi Su li seme?"  I translate this as "Maybe what is the name Su?"Try to remember not to capitalize the beginnings of Toki Pona sentences. Yes, I know it's difficult to keep from doing it."jan Tajanatamiselo li kama jo e kiwen suli pi kule walo pimeja tawa poki lenona." --
 I have translated this to myself as "Tajanatamiselo gets a big grayish rock to his cloth sack." Perhaps you meant to say that he got the rock FROM his sack, in which case "tawa" should be replaced with "tan"."kama la mi sona ala la, mi tawa e lawa mi." As far as I know, you can't use two la phrases in one sentences. Try not to be so precise."lawa pi jan Tajanatamiselo li kama e lawa jan pi sona ala." --
 What did you mean? I have translated it as "Tajanatamiselo's head brings the personal leadership of no knowledge.""ona pana e kiwen walo tawa mi." --
 Probably just a little mistake, but don't foget your "li".  Also, when you said, "sina wile ala wile kiwen sama pi kiwen sina?" you left out the "e" before "kiwen".  There are various other places where "li" and "e" have been left out.ona li lukin sama sona ala. --
 You've used "sona ala" several times. Are you trying to say that it's dumb? I suggest "nasa".mi kulupu e kiwen ni sinpin mi --
 I have absolutely no idea what you wanted to say here.ona li jo e ilo kiwen tu la, li kama. --
 This seems odd to me. I'm not sure if it's necessary, but I would've put another "ona" before the "li" after the "la"."galawi mesona?" --
 I'm not totally sure, but it looks like you've tried to make the aliens' (or whoever they are) speech fall into Toki Pona phonetic rules. If that's the case the G should become K.Well, that's all the commentary I have time for right now.  Despite all the mistakes, I think it's quite remarkable that the gist of the story is understandable despite how new you are to the language.--
 Pije