---
author: "Amelia Imperatrix"
date: 2003-03-03T19:11:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
jan Pije <[kurum3@aol.com](mailto://kurum3@aol.com)\
> li toki e ni:
> I think the biggest thing I've noticed is that you have put many of your
> prepositional phrases before the "e + direct object" stuff.
> For example, you said "ona li toki tawa mi e ni". I would recommend thatyou
> say "ona li toki e ni tawa mi" instead.If the audience didn't determine the language spoken, I would consider itmore often.
> What do you mean when you say "kama la" like in your sentence "kama la onali
> sona ala." If you were wanting to express something that happened in the
> future, I suggest "tenpo kama la," but I'm not so sure that that is whatyou
> were trying to say there.I'm trying to express "became", like "he became confused". I tried "kamasona ala", but Lament said that he didn't understand it and preferred thisstructure. I'm still learning the grammar, as you observed below.
> What did you mean by "mi tawa e luka mi tawa mi." I think that that means"I
> gave my hand to myself," but is that what you were wanting to say?I thought 'tawa' meant 'to move' and 'pana' was 'to give'. At any rate,what I should have said was "mi tawa e luka mi tawa sinpin mi."
> When you said "mi tawa e lawa mi" and other very similar phrases, were you
> trying to say, "I moved my head"? You used that phrase a good deal, and Iwas
> just wondering, because I don't think most people usually talk aboutpeople
> turning their heads that much.Toki Pona is very short on words to describe direction of movement. I'mtalking about nodding and shaking one's head.
> When you said, "ona li toki tawa mi 'su jan Linalanesoni,'" I would'vesaid
> "ona li toki e ni tawa mi: 'su jan Linalanesoni.'" It looks like you fixed
> this on some similar situations later in the story.My goof.
> What did you mean by "ken la nimi Su li seme?" I translate this as "Maybe
> what is the name Su?"I was trying to say "what could the word 'su' be?" I should have put 'su'in quotation marks.
> Try to remember not to capitalize the beginnings of Toki Pona sentences.Yes,
> I know it's difficult to keep from doing it.
>> "jan Tajanatamiselo li kama jo e kiwen suli pi kule walo pimeja tawa pokilen
> ona." --
 I have translated this to myself as "Tajanatamiselo gets a big
> grayish rock to his cloth sack." Perhaps you meant to say that he got the
> rock FROM his sack, in which case "tawa" should be replaced with "tan".I agree, I should have used tan.
> "kama la mi sona ala la, mi tawa e lawa mi." As far as I know, you can'tuse
> two la phrases in one sentences. Try not to be so precise.
>> "lawa pi jan Tajanatamiselo li kama e lawa jan pi sona ala." --
 What didyou
> mean? I have translated it as "Tajanatamiselo's head brings the personal
> leadership of no knowledge."Another use of a structure I thought I'd gotten rid of. I need to change itto "lawa pi jan Tajanatamiselo li kama lukin sama sona ala." Assuming thatmakes any more sense.
> "ona pana e kiwen walo tawa mi." --
 Probably just a little mistake, butdon't
> foget your "li". Also, when you said, "sina wile ala wile kiwen sama pi
> kiwen sina?" you left out the "e" before "kiwen". There are various other
> places where "li" and "e" have been left out.Thanks.
> ona li lukin sama sona ala. --
 You've used "sona ala" several times. Areyou
> trying to say that it's dumb? I suggest "nasa".No, "confused, ignorant, not knowing".
> mi kulupu e kiwen ni sinpin mi --
 I have absolutely no idea what youwanted
> to say here.I'm trying to use kulupu e to mean "to gather", "to bring together in agroup".
> ona li jo e ilo kiwen tu la, li kama. --
 This seems odd to me. I'm notsure
> if it's necessary, but I would've put another "ona" before the "li" afterthe 
>> "la".I should have done that.
> "galawi mesona?" --
 I'm not totally sure, but it looks like you've triedto
> make the aliens' (or whoever they are) speech fall into Toki Pona phonetic
> rules. If that's the case the G should become K.Yes, I made that mistake several times. All the g's should be k's.
> Well, that's all the commentary I have time for right now. Despite allthe
> mistakes, I think it's quite remarkable that the gist of the story is
> understandable despite how new you are to the language.
>> --
 PijeBut was it a good story?