---
author: "Russ Williams"
date: 2007-01-23T13:19:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
On 1/23/07, kate rhodes <[masukomi@gmail.com](mailto://masukomi@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> \[cut examples and reasoning\]
>> 
> I would like jan Sonja to decide if pi can be used not only before a
> 
> noun with a modifier, but also before a noun followed by pi ...
>> It seems that to not allow it would be to just stick to an arbitrary
> rule, which is something languages almost never do naturally."Almost never"?! I'd say "always". Nonconstructed national languagesalmost ALWAYS stick on arbitrary rules! Every national language I'vestudied is full of arbitrary rules that are stuck on with no reason,or from some crazy logic from centuries ago. (Especially Polish. :)Surely examples are not needed, but just in case, here are a few offthe top of my head for English, why is it fine to say "big redhammer", but sounds "wrong" to say "red big hammer"? Why is the 3rdperson singular of verbs different from all other persons and numbers("he eats", "I/you/we/they eat")? Why is the plural of "foot" "feet"instead of "foots"? Why do many authorities say "an historical"instead of "a historical", given that that "h" is not silent so theword starts with a consonant sound? Why is the verb "to be"irregular in probably every national language? Why does English havehundreds of irregular verbs? I'm sure we can all think of many more.(And don't get me started on Polish. :)But in a constructed language, it seems nice to avoid such crazy exceptions.exceptionally,russ