---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-01-30T16:35:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 akesi\_palisa <[akesi_palisa@yahoo.de](mailto://akesi_palisa@yahoo.de)\
> wrote:

> jan ali, toki!
> Mi jan Helmut tan ma Tosi, mi lon ma tomo Pelin.
> As I have started to deal with toki pona only a few days ago, I have
> to continue in English for the time being.
> I want to ask some toki pona related questions and to make a proposal
> to solve the problem of using large numbers: Why not add the
> following four words to the official wordlist: ten (10), sen (100 -
> "cent"), tasan (1000 - "thousand") and mijo ("million"). So it would
> be extremely easy to express any number such as tu ten luka = 25 or
> tenpo seki pi nanpa tu tasan luka tu (2007).This is as good as an suggestion. We just have to agree to expand ourvocabulary a bit --
 or finda way to do this ouside vocabulary: names of numbers as adjectives.
> Now, here are my questions:
> 1. How can I say "right" and "left", "sufficient", "between", "in
> front of" in toki pona?Two patterns for "left" and "right", both based on Western reading habits: "pokapi nanpa wan" for"left" and "poka pi nanpa tu" for "right" (the first and second sides in readingorder). and "pokapi open suno" ("right") and "poka pi pini suno" (from the sides for sunrise andsunset when facingnorth, i.e., map reading). "in front of" is "lon sinpin" For between, theofficial line is"between A and B" is "A li lon poka wan. B li lon poka ante." I've seen anattempt using "insa"but it doesn't seem quite right (it sounds like being in the heart of eachrather than in thespece between). Nothing so far for "sufficient" that I have found. Maybesomething like "nanpawile", "desired/needed quantity"?
> 2. How can I express sentences like "Do you feel better?" or "I'm the
> grea test!", i.e. comparisons with the compared side missing?Comparatives are done (officially) with the contrast between "lili" and "mute." "A is Ber than C"is "A li B mute. C li B lili" It's not clear how this would work as a question. Super;latives arejust "-er than all others", "ante ale" for "C" in the above formula. Some haveused "mute'" and"mute mute" for these.
> 3. When saying 'tenpo suno pini la mi pilin ike.', then how can I
> distinguish between "I felt sick yesterday" and "I've been feeling
> sick since yesterday".Second is "tan suno pini"
> 4. How can I tokiponize my first name "Helmut" best?"Emu" keeps the rhythm but looses a lot of detail (obviously I don't mind that),"Elamuta" or so,with different fill vowels, keeps the details but loses the rhythm.
> Mi pilin pona tan ni: mi awen e toki kama sina.
> Pona!
> akesi\_palisa
>>>