---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-04-26T22:09:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
pona. kili Tulipa li pona lon ma Nedelan mute lon ma mi.tenpo suno luka luka tu la mi weka. a. o lukin e toki mute kama. a.toki ni li toki lon/sike/e/- ijo mute pi suli mute. o mi wile toki lon/sike/e/-ni kepeken tokiInli. o pona e ike mi.I suppose the first thing is how to say "talk about," for which threeconventions (see above) arein play. Aside from thnking that "e" won't do, I have no preferences at themoment (OK, I dothink that "lon: is in danger of being overworked, but "sike" relies on ametaphor that I am notsure is generally valid). (Nor do I think that the complement is the right place--
 it should befor the language, if anything special).As for the role of "pi," the textbook we've all used does say explicitly that itis for connectinga noun phrase to a noun (insofar as those terms make sense here). On the otherhand, tp need away to express right groupings within its generally left-grouping structure andthis would work.Not having such a mark (whether "pi" or something else)introduces furtherambiguity into an alradypretty op\[aque (in isolation) structure. So I would take the textbook to betalking about aparticular typivcal use, not the whole of it. (We also probably need to thinkabout the rightgrouping imposed by such words as "tawa" within a predicate and about thegrouplessness ofnumbers). I hope I understood that discussion correctly: Esperanto was never myfavoriteconstructed language, even when it was my only one (I started to (re)createLatina sine Flexioneinstead).Speaking of the multiword modified-modifier complexes, I wonder if we maysometimes need somedevice other than periphrasis (or transformational reconstruction) todistinguish between variousmeanings that are different, especially opposite. "jan moli" real does mean allof "dead man,""murder victim" (not too bad) and (but this is bad) "murderer." And --
 perhapswith a differentexample --
 probably several other things as well. It is not hard to think ofcontexts where thedictum "Context decides" is useless. Of course, if you want to keep thelanguage unchangedaltogether, then these are cases where you should have developed your sense ofthe inner spirit ofthe language (and your awareness of the situation) to always use someun-(well,less)ambiguousexpression to begin with: not "jan moli li seme" but "seme li moli e ni" or "janseme li moli" andso on.As just implied, the question of the two futures of tp has arisen moreexplicitly, with peopledeclaring for one side or the other (though most actually shift back and forthin practice). Asbefore, I advocate the middle ground (but would be willing to make the handfulof changes requiredto make it most fully workable): pure tp with portmanteaux (and a workablesystem of numbers, ofcourse). But then, I have an abiding disbelief in Whorfian effects and so seetp's virtue mainlyas being the easiest auxlang to learn. But that means that the basics shouldnot change unlessthere is a real proof that something cannot be said in the language --
 and Ithink that is ratherunlikely and certainly hasn't turned up yet (although, if we insist ondefinitional expressions,we will soon --
 if not already --
 reach the Zipf wall, where expressions forconcepts areintolerably long for the frequency of the concept).On "li," I admit the rule is klunky, but it has the virtue of being realistic --
natural languageshave clunky rules like that. The closest thing to a justification for it seemsto be that "mi"and "sina" rarely take further modifiers, so the status of the following word isclear. thiswould explain why the plural forms "mi mute" and "sina ali," require "li." To besure, "ona" and"ni," the third person pronouns, are similarly rarely (ever, aside from possibleplurals?)modified and could, thus, also go "li"less. It is not clear whether the rule isbased on thethought that these latter could be modified or is just groundlessly unsymmetric.Or maybe not: the"third person pronouns" may simply not be considered as in the same class(pronouns, say) as "mi"and "sina" (they are different in English, after all).I think the solution to the direct/indirect speech issue is elegant, effectiveand exactly in thespirit of the language: "toki e ni:" v. "toki e nimi ni." Thanks.On the other hand, the latest suggestion about numbers, while logical in thelight of other tpstructures, just doesn't help. We can't get all the numbers with it, forstarters (3, e.g.) andit preserves the general defects of the original system. Of course, whether youthink this is aproblem is a defining test for the issue of the future of tp.Like numbers, some problems are perennial. The issue of stress in properadjectives is one:natural (i.e., at home) v. first syllable. I think the rule has to be firstsyllable, otherwisewe invite even more confusions. But, we will keep mispronouncing these words,just as we oftenmispronounce three-syllable basic words. Practice, practice, practice.The matter of the difference between "mi anpa e jan" and "mi kama anpa e jan"and similar pairshas been less discussed but still turns up from time to time. So far, I havenot seen adefinitive answer or even a good setting out of possible positions (if we reallythink there is adifference). A good start got made, though (I'm not perfectly sure what hasbeen given,admittedly, since I am no longer --
 if ever --
 sensitive to distinctions inEsperanto). But on thegeneral issue of whether all content words cqan be verb,. I would say that they\*can\* be but thatsome are pretty unlikely to be (and the same goes for --
 and more so perhaps --
for Prepositionsand Conditions). the two examples of impossible cases jan Kanso offers bothlook grammatical andhave pretty clear senses (though not necessarily of the "A brings it about thatC is B" officiallyproposed for "A li B e C" when b is not a "natural" verb --
 I don't suppose onewants to makesomeone an eyeball). In short, the situation seems to be pretty much likeEnglish, where any nouncan become a verb of sorts, but some are not likely (though some prettysurprising thing have beenused).This round of "What tp needs" seems to me to be, as uasual, an opportunity foringenuity (orlooking at what has already been done), not yet the case that would reallyrequire a new word orstructure (though I don't have any suggestions to offer, except to note thatthere are discussionsof relative clauses --
 both restrictive and non-, back somewhere in the archives\[unless they arein another paper I am working on --
 things are getting all shuffled together inmy head\]).