---
author: "bacchus13579"
date: 2002-10-27T20:51:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 1
---
I wish you would've put an "undecided" choice on the poll. I'm rather
conservative, and if there are possible changes, I like to have
plenty of time to think about them. If I judge early, I always find
that several weeks later I've changed my mind, and that's the way my
mind stays.

I like the proposal in general, even though I wish we didn't have to
change things. The one thing I particularly don't like is the removal
of "kan". As Marraskuu showed, it is quite possible to get along fine
without it, but, like I said, I'm quite conservative, and once I've
had a word, I don't want to give it up, at least not until I've had
time to adjust smoothly. "mi en/kin sina..." in a good deal of cases
seems more rigid and artificial than the more friendly "mi ... kan
sina."

As far as en and kin go, the change is a good idea, and I think it
would help clear up some confusion. The only objection I really have
is that I don't like the word "en." It seems like a very confused and
awkward word to me. Maybe it's because it's so short or something;
I'm not really sure. I'd prefer to see "kin" keep its status as "and"
and have "en" become the word that intensifies whatever follows;
perhaps that's just wishful thinking.

I disagree with the idea of removing advanced numbers. Although I
agree that it can be and probably has been abused, I think the need
for higher numbers outweighs the bad usage. Imagine a boy playing a
number-guessing game: Man: "Hey kid, pick a number between wan and mute.
"Boy: "Okay! I pick ... umm... mute!
"Man: "Nope. Sorry, kiddo. The number I had in mind was 'mute,'
not 'mute'. Better luck next time."

Anyhow, gotta go.

***
Pije