---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-05-01T13:31:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Rick Miller <[rdmiller3@gmail.com](mailto://rdmiller3@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> On 4/30/07, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

> 
> ...
> 
> (ijo) pi lukin sama (mute/kin) mirror
> 
> ...

*   ...
>> nimi sina pi nimi mute li ike.
>> I don't like the idea of mapping English words. Why not just come up
> with a TP phrase to represent each letter of the English alphabet,
> then you could spell out any words you want!Ah, but not in tp. The issue, in part, is "How much can we express using justthe limitedresources of tp?" This is different from another goal --
 which you seem toprefer --
 of reining inone's conceptual apparatus to conform to the limits of tp. They are two sidesof the same coin,but they lead to rather different activities. Any one for this latter projectshould ignore thesedictionary notes. On the other hand, if you were inclined to think of tp as apotential auxlang,say, you would want to contribute in one way or another to this list. Bothapproaches arelegitmate within the broad specification of the purposes of the language.
>> The vocabulary of Toki Pona is deliberately limited and vague. I LIKE
> it that way.Then ignore this, as I said. It will be interesting to see what is thepsychological upshot ofrigorous tpization.
> Look at cats and rats and cows and tigers and say, "soweli"... and let
> your mind get used to it. Look at trees and grass and flowers and
> wooden stuff and say, "kasi"... and let it be okay.
>> Please don't try to translate the great literature into Toki Pona.
> Don't try to express complex or minutely detailed scenes or concepts.
> It's a simple language. Think simply.
>> It's good that way.
>