---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2007-02-07T10:35:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> schrieb: Almost certainly, but we don't have enough cases to be clear about what it is. In particular, itis not clear whether or just what the difference is between a woman who is big (in some sense) anda big person who is a woman. Those are clearly the two readings involved. I suspect that therelativization of "big" is one factor but ther may be others --
 beyond matters of emphasis.---
 malinpansy <[tania@galloway8.net](mailto://tania@galloway8.net)\
> wrote:

> First of all, thank you for "kama pona"-ing me here and pointing out
> my mistakes. I appreciate that.
> 
> This may be covered in the lessons at tokipona.esperanto-jeunes.org,
> but I haven't finished going through them and was half asleep last
> night when I looked at the first several.
> 
> Can nuances of meaning be expressed in the order of modifiers? For
> instance:
> 
> jan suli meli
> jan meli suli
> 
> Do they mean, respectively, "a big/important/tall/adult person who is
> a woman" and "a woman who is big (implying big for a woman)?"
> 
> I fully agree. The closer a modifier is positioned next to the main word, the more important this modifier is in the view of the speaker or writer. So, jan suli meli ist first of all a big etc. person and secondarily a woman, while jan melisuli is a woman who happens to be big or adult. This brings me to ask: Does jan lili mute mean "many children" or "a very young baby"? Or is this just the ambiguity of tp? For all German tokiponians, I have started to translate jan Kipo's wordlists and explanations into German. Please find them attached hereto. pona! jan Elumutu Yahoo! Messenger - kostenlos\* mit Familie und Freunden von PC zu PC telefonieren.