---
author: "vi-west499@hothottoday.com"
date: 2006-02-05T13:32:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
THIS UNDISCOVERED GEM ( MDEX.PK)Watch it go crazy on Monday morningFebruary's Feature Company...Madison Explorations, Inc.Symbol: MDEX.PKCURRENT SHARE PRICE $0.36 Madison Explorations, Inc. (MDEX.PK; $0.36) S.T. Target $2.75Madison is incorporated in Nevada. Shares trade in New York under the tickersymbol MDEX. Current price per share is just 36 cents, nearly 300% above itsSeptember low. Opportunities as clear and sparkling as this one come alongrarely. Carpe diem!There are those rare times when the decision to invest in a particular stock orindustry is a no-brainer: homeland security in the wake of 9-11, gold in thefall of 2001, and China in early 2002, for example, to name a few prescientcalls. The Canadian diamond industry and diamond explorer Madison Explorationspresent us with just such a unique opportunity.Canadian Diamonds: An Industry in the RoughCanada is entering only its sixth year as a diamond player, but already it's theworld's #3 diamond producer, behind Botswana and Russia. From 2002 to 2003,Canadian diamond production more than doubled to 11.2 million carats. In a veryshort time, Canada has gone from a non-entity in the diamond biz to a supplierof about 15% of the world's rough diamonds. Today, nearly half of all fundingfor diamond exploration goes to Canada.Even more impressive than the huge growth itself is the fact that that hugegrowth has come on the strength of just two active diamond mines: Ekati, jointlyoperated by Dia-Met and BHP, and Diavik, jointly operated by Aber and Rio Tinto.Tahera's Jericho Mine will go online next year. Snap Lake, a joint venturebetween De Beers and Winspear - is slated for full production in 2007. It willpropel Canada passed Russia into the #2 spot amongst the world's diamondproducers - with just four active mines! In terms of end-market, Canadiandiamonds have a crucial advantage over the competition: Unlike diamonds fromAngola, Liberia, and Sierra Leone, for instance - "blood diamonds" used tofinance bloody political conflict, Canadian diamonds are "clean." Consumers'preference for clean diamonds is one of the reasons Tiffany struck a deal withTahera to buy or market all the diamonds Tahera's Jericho Mine produces. Tiffanyrefuses to sell "blood diamonds."Madison Explorations: An Investor's Best FriendThe Northwest Territories has been the preferred target area for diamondexplorers. Shore Gold's discovery of a 19.7 carat rock at its Star DiamondProject last year intensified exploration in Saskatchewan, the second mostactive exploration area in the Northwest Territories as measured by moneyinflows. Madison Explorations is the most active explorer in SouthernSaskatchewan. That includes the De Beers-Kensington partnership. Madison'sprimary area of exploration is Scout Lake, which, according to the SaskatchewanGeological Survey, is one of the two most promising diamond areas in theprovince. That conclusion confirms the work of Dr. Joseph Montgomery, thedirector of five mining companies and Madision's lead diamond explorer. Dr.Montgomery has spent more than a decade surveying the area. He is a person ofconsiderable expertise and is exceptionally well regarded in the metals andminerals discovery business. Dr. Montgomery has been involved in more than 300prosperous mineral explorations all over the world, including projects forDiamond Fields. Based on his ten years surveying Scout Lake, Dr. Montgomerybelieves it is one of the most promising diamond locations he's ever seen andthat the area could be home to the largest diamond deposit in the provinceMadison is the only active explorer in Scout Lake, which, from a geologicalstandpoint, has many of the same characteristics as Fort à la Corne, where ShoreGold made last year's spectacular discovery. Madison is currently exploring twoother potential diamond properties in Southern Saskatchewan, Bulls-eye andBronco. The results of early indicator studies at both properties have been veryfavorable.Winspear, Dia-Met, and Aber each partnered with a more senior diamond producer.Madison is currently the only active explorer in one of the most potentiallydiamond-rich regions within a national industry that is experiencing dazzlinggrowth and whose full potential is only just now being tapped. We wouldnot be surprised to see Madison follow the trend and partner up with a De Beers,for instance. In the meantime, look for additional diamond property acquisitionsand discoveries by this aggressive upstart - and for substantial share priceappreciation over the mid- to long-term.