---
author: "Matthew Martin"
date: 2007-10-24T19:48:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
jan sin o! toki!mun sike tu la mi sona kama pini e toki pona. It took me about twomonths to learn enough toki pona to get by.tempo ni la mi li sona ala e nimi mute. ona li "difficult, question,problem, etc" There are still many words that are hard for me totranslate into suitable phrases. I've seen a lot of reactions tothis, either avoid anything that turns out hard to say in toki pona,invent clever idioms that aren't obvious without additionalexplanation (say a dictionary entry), iterating through randomcombinations of words and seeing what does make sense (akatokiponamancy), occasional pleas to expand the base vocabulary,speaking metaphorically, getting aggressive or creative with polysemy,pushing the grammar to express more than it wants too etc. etc.This area of difficulty is the "learning-brick-wall" I ran into afterabout two months. That said, I can say more things in toki pona thanI can in Icelandic, which I've invested a similar amount of time.Jan Pije li jo e lipu nimi pona pi sona pi toki pona. Jan Pije'sguide is still the gold standard for toki pona syntax. We don't quitehave a gold standard dictionary for all the "compound words"/idiomaticphrases, although several people are working on it, Sonja and JohnClifford's the most important ones so far, but neither are publishedyet (except the preliminary lists John has published to the Yahoolists)taso kepeken kulupu Jaju la mi kepeken e toki pona. I only use tokipona on the toki pona mailing list. Living languages must exist insideof a social context and right now the Yahoo group is the most active(although there is also a toki pona group on Facebook.com andLivejournal.com, neither as active as the Yahoo group yet) It is abig help that this is an international group. I know that if I don'tput some toki pona into my posts that some people will not understandme at all.Don't forget to check out the tokipona.net search engine, that Iwrote, which has a pretty comprehensive coverage of everything in tokipona on the net.o lukin e lipu sona mi Tokipona.NET! mi li pali e ni. mi pilin li sonae ni: ona li jo lipu sona ala pi toki pona pi len pi ilo sona.mi tawa,jan Matthew Martin(and take my toki pona with a grain of salt, I tend to make a lot of mistakes!)On 10/24/07, aunty\_sue <[chatter@welearn.com.au](mailto://chatter@welearn.com.au)\
> wrote:

>> Hi people, I first heard of toki pona yesterday, found and bookmarked
> all the net resources (I think), and I want to learn it.
>> I'd like to ask you some questions that probably have no good answers,
> sorry, just trying to get a feel of what I'm in for, how much time to
> allocate, and what outcomes are reasonable to hope for.
>> With only 118 words and a handful of logical pattern restrictions, it
> looks like something I should knock over in a few days of
> determination, or a dozen short evening sessions. Am I kidding myself
> here?
>> After finishing the tutorial and feeling confident with all of the
> material, what happens next? How do you set about turning a mental
> catalogue into fluency or comfortable everyday use? Or does it just...
> happen?
>