---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-11-15T23:02:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
And the answer to my question is pretty clearly that 'weka'needs 'tan' for the pace from which the subject is distant. .In the couple ofdozen relevant cases, only my own examples used the 'tawa' style construction,even with the (most common) transitive uses of 'weka,'This seems to mean that the 'tawa' class is essentially closed at the threecurrent members: tawa. tan. and lon, since th other semantically possible word,kama, is a modal (takes a predict phrase ascomplement). Looking at the examples of 'weka' in the corpus turned up severalcases of 'awen' being used as a modal  'awen weka e ijo' "keeptossing out/losing the thing"), which puts it in the same class with ken ,wile and kama (and probably --
but not clearlyattested --
 open, pini and maybe pali).  The search also turned up someearlier cases of 'weka' apparently meaning "go away" (activity, notstate), which has reecently been given as 'tawa weka' or 'kamaweka' (and 'open weka' seems also to be a possibility), all with slightlydifferent meanings perhaps.  Thus, the question of parts of speech isbecoming clearer.-----
 Original Message ----
From: John E Clifford <[kali9putra@yahoo.com](mailto://kali9putra@yahoo.com)\
>To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent): Thursday, November 15, 2007 11:23:05 AMSubject: Re: \[tokipona\] Re: mi wile sitelen musiSorry to shift to English, but I am not sure I understood this and so I go to a language where I have more confidence (possibly unfounded) of being clear.-----
 Original Message ----
From: Josan Kapo <mail@jonathangabel. com
>To: tokipona@yahoogroup s.comSent: Wednesday, November 14, 2007 10:50:31 PMSubject: \[tokipona\] Re: mi wile sitelen musi---
 In tokipona@yahoogroup s.com, John E Clifford <kali9putra@ ...
> wrote:

>> 
> ---
 Josan Kapo <mail@...
> wrote:

> 
> 
> ---
 In tokipona@yahoogroup s.com, Helmut Voigt <akesi\_palisa@ 
> wrote:

> 
> 
>> 
> 
> "lon en mute" as "beyond"? ken la, "lon weka mute tan ma anpa..." li pona.
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> mi pilin sama sina: "lon en mute" li ike. "lon weka mute tan" li pona mute. pona!
> 
> 
> 
> 
> mi pilin e ni: nimi 'weka' li sama ala sama e nimi 'tawa'?mi pilin e ni: sama ala:1) mi lon ma ni. mi tawa. mi weka ma ni. ( tawa li kama e weka.)2) mi lon ma ni. mi tawa weka. mi weka e ma ni. ( tawa weka li kama e weka.)3) mi lon ma ni. mi tawa. mi lon ala ma ni. (tenpo ni la mi weka. taso mi tawa ala.)Note that in the first case, 'weka' is treated as a tawa-class verb ('quasi preposition' ), in the second it is transitive, though not the usual causative version.  At no point does the place from which one is away get introduced by 'tan,' as the lessons have it. As I said above, I am not sure what the point of these three items is, but I take it to be a disagreement with something, apparently that 'weka' is like 'tawa' --
 although it is here used at first in exactly that way of the similarity, then in a different way --
 not the one in the lessons.'weka e ijo' means 'get rid of the thing', not 'be away from the thing.'
> nimi 'weka' li jo ala jo e nimi lon poka?ni li sona pona. mi ken ala ken weka e mi? mi pilin e ni: ijo li weka. ilo li ken ala \`lon weka'. mi mute li wile toki e ni tan seme? taso: mi lon ma ni. mi pilin e ma ante. ken la mi lon weka? (ie, being in the state of awareness of one's absence?) I meant 'Does 'weka' have the address (of the place one is distant from) immediately after (next to) it?'  I don't understand the answer, except that it appears to be 'No' in spite of earlier usage.  I don't see how 'mi lon weka,' w2hich involves only locational verbs can mean something about the state of my awareness: it means "I am away (a some distant place).'  I suppose that can be an idiom for being unaware of what is going on around one, but not the Nyayika awareness of an absence.
> anu nimi lon li lon ala lon monsi nimi 'tan' ?mi ken ala sona e ni. sina ken ala ken pana e kulupu nimi kepeken ni? Yeah, this is not clear.  I meant "Does the place you are distant from have to be mentioned as the object of  (after) the prepositions 'tan'?'mi tawa (anu weka?) – jan JosanI suppose that 'tawa' refers to an actvity, while 'weka' is a state - one you can't be in while in a conversation (assuming certain usual presuppositions about hidden rweferences) .  I suppose 'kama weka' is meant --
 'tawa' weka'. Never miss a thing. Make Yahoo your homepage. Get easy, one-click access to your favorites. Make Yahoo! your homepage.