---
author: "MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com"
date: 2008-03-31T05:05:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
This is an excerpt of the grammar rules for Toki Pona from the Wikipedia article.6. A noun phrase may be (a) noun \[modifier\]\*, or (b) simple noun phrase pi noun plus modifier\*, or (c) noun phrase conjunction noun phrase (that is, a compound noun phrase) (The conjunction may be anu or en. A 'simple' noun phrase is one which does not have a conjunction.)7. A prepositional phrase is of the form preposition plus noun phrase 8. A verb phrase may be (a) verbal (b) modal plus verbal (c) verbalx ala verbalx (both verbals are the same) (d) modalx ala modalx plus verbal (both modals are the same) (The modal may be kama, ken, or wile.)9 A verbal may be (a) verb \[modifier\]\* (this is an intransitive verb) (b) verb \[modifier\]\* plus a direct object\* (this is a transitive verb) (c) lon or tawa plus a simple noun phrase In line 9c must the noun phrase after lon or tawa be simple, i.e., have no conjunction?  I don't think so, but I want other people's opinions.If compound (or multiple) noun phrases are allowed after lon/tawa, how are they joined?  Is the verb repeated?  If so, must the second verb be preceded by li?mi tawa (sina ? ona)  = I go to you and him.mi tawa sina li tawa ona. = I go to you and \*to\* him.mi tawa sina tawa ona.  (This could mean "I go to you \*for\* him" rather than "I go to you \*and\* him".)mi tawa sina en ona.  (I favor this, I think, since "en" means only 'and', and nothing else seems to work here very well.)jan Setepo / stevo