---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-03-15T00:40:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\
> First Language Creation Conference
> UC Berkeley - MLK 5th Floor - 23 April 2006
> 9am-5pm
> Tickets $5-25 as able (no one refused for lack
> of funds)
>> FOR MORE INFORMATION & TO REGISTER:
> [http://conlangs.berkeley.edu/](http://conlangs.berkeley.edu/)\
>> What Is the 1st Language Creation Conference?
> The Conference is a set of talks and panel
> discussions about various
> issues related to language creation, from
> several different
> perspectives. It includes both fairly academic
> linguistic discussions
> as well as more general sociological ones;
> voices from many parts of
> the conlanging community; and people from all
> over America. The
> conference is open to the public;
> preregistration requested. Lunch and
> snacks will be provided.
>> What Is Language Creation?
> Language creation (or "conlanging" --
 "conlang"
> is short for
> "constructed language") is the process of
> inventing and (usually)
> describing a new language. Though the extent to
> which a language is
> created varies, creators might include sound
> systems, grammars, and
> writing systems for their languages. Some
> creators are also interested
> in cosmogenesis: the creation of cultures and
> worlds in which their
> languages are used.
>> What's the Point?
> People create constructed languages for a
> number of reasons. Artistic
> languages are often included in fictional
> works: for example,
> Tolkien's Quenya in The Lord of the Rings or
> Klingon in Star Trek.
> International auxiliary languages (auxlangs)
> are intended for
> communication between people of different
> native languages, usually to
> prevent one being elevated over others or to
> making learning easier;
> some famous examples are Esperanto, Ido, and
> Interlingua. Logical and
> philosophical languages are used to test
> linguistic (and other)
> theories; Loglan and Lojban are well-known
> examples of the former, and
> Suzette Haden Elgin's Láadan is an example of
> the latter --
 which she
> incorporated into the Native Tongue series of
> novels.
>> Talks
> Doug Ball: "Conlanging and the Linear Aspects
> of Syntax"
> Sally Caves: "The Medium and the Internet
> Conlanger: Vision, Venue, and Play"
> John Clifford: "Semantic Primes: aUI to
> Esperanto with Stops Along the Way"
> Sai Emrys: "Non-Linear Fully 2-Dimensional
> Writing Systems"
> Don Harlow: "The Use of Conlangs for
> Creativity"
> Matt Pearson: "Case, Aspect, and Argument
> Structure: One Conlanger's
> Investigations"
> David Peterson: "Down with Morphemes: What Word
> and Paradigm
> Morphology Can Teach Us"
> John Quijada: "Applying Concepts from Cognitive
> Linguistics to Your Conlang"
>> Panels
> Conlang Teaching
> Conlang Aesthetics
>> Sponsored by ASUC & Language Creation Society.
> Wheelchair accessible.
>> FOR MORE INFORMATION & TO REGISTER:
> [http://conlangs.berkeley.edu/](http://conlangs.berkeley.edu/)\
>> Print-ready version of this flyer at
> [http://conlangs.berkeley.edu/flyer.pdf](http://conlangs.berkeley.edu/flyer.pdf)\
>> Please forward this to all relevant mailing
> lists, message boards, or
> people you know. Thanks!
>