---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-09-06T21:32:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
For thirty years I have been asking people why, when they start a new language,they always pickfor their first translation the most complex, technical, and foreign cultureembedded textimaginable. And they always say "That's the only thing that is worthtranslating." TheBhagavadGita is all those things and this chapter is one of the more jargonloaded ones. thatbeing said, this translation catches the gist of most of it and the rhetoric aswell. Most of therest of this note is nitpicking.---
 Kevyn Scott Kateri Calanza Bello <[silverwings_88@yahoo.com](mailto://silverwings_88@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

> o pona e ni! mi kama pini pali e toki wan pi lipu sewi Pakawakita anu
> "kalama musi sewi". mi pana e toki tan toki Inli tawa toki pona tan
> ni: mi sona ala e toki Sankitu.
>> ona li pona tawa sona. taso ona li ike tan ni: pana mi li tan toki
> Inli. taso lipu toki sewi ni lon toki Inli li tan jan Papupata
> (Prabhupada).
>> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> toki pi nanpa luka luka tu: pali olin
>>> 1 jan Asuna li toki e ni:
> jan seme li pona mute:
> jan pi pali olin tawa sina
> anu jan pi pali sewi tawa ale sewi?"pona" in this context means knowledge of Yoga (or maybe just yoga). "ale sewi"gets spelled outin some detail, less here, more later:the usual "infinite", "unbegun" "undying""imperishable""unmanifested" and so on. Given that we seem to be using "sewi" for objects orreligious awe,"ale sewi" is pretty good (but be careful not to think this is pantheism) Ilike the separationof "pali olln" "devotion" and "pali sewi" "worship," some point about thedifference runs throughmost of BG.
> 2 jan sewi li toki e ni:
> jan li awen e pilin lon sitelen jan mi
> li pali sewi tawa mi lon olin suli la
> jan li pona mute tawa mi."jan sewi" misses the fact that this is a very particular god in a veryparticular guise, thie isThe Blessed Lord (SrimadBhagwan --
 like "lord" a name about divvying thingsup)maybe at least "jansewi Bakawan." I don't get "lon sitelen jan mi" ?"Rest your mind in my humanimage"? "lon olinsuli"? I don't understand "lon" well enough to know whether this works --
 itseems odd unless Ithink of it as "in the state of great love". I wonder if what is in English theobject of"worship" can't be the object here (with "e" rather than with "tawa" --
 therules seem obscure tome)and so also ith "pali olin," where it seems to ake a bit more sense.
> 3-4 taso jan li pali sewi
> tawa ale sewi lon nasin
> pi pilin ala lon ale la
> jan li kama pini tawa mi.Verse 3 is just a solid list of those names of the all behind it all or whathave you. And 4describes the person in more detail (compassionate, good to all, etc.). But thepoint is there atthe end.
> 5 pilin jan li awen lon ale
> pi sitelen ala la ona li kama lon nasin pi pona ala.
> kama kepeken pali ni li pona ala tawa jan."pona ala" in the sense of "difficult"This is taking longer to write than I expected. I'll stop here and go on onlyif anyone isactually interested.