---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2008-01-17T19:04:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\-----
 Original Message ----
From: AJK <[ikojba@gmail.com](mailto://ikojba@gmail.com)\
>To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent): Thursday, January 17, 2008 10:24:38 AMSubject: Re: \[tokipona\] \[toki luka pona\] nimi li "mi"On Jan 17, 2008 4:20 PM, John E Clifford <kali9putra@yahoo. com
> wrote:

> No, see P4 in jan Setepo's grammar: 'o' precedes the verb in imperatives,
> but the subject in optatives and (as here, I assume) hortatives.That would be another exception, alongside of mi and sina without li.Furtheron, in the lessons of jan Pije at the point where he explainso, you can find for example "mi mute o ..." which is just like thesame.
>Actually, this seems anomolous.  'o' functions to 1) mark a vocative, coming after the evocation and 2) to  mark directive use, coming before the subject, if any.  When the two occur together, the double 'o' collapses to one.  In the 'mi mute o pali' case we have first person evocation "Hey us",   then a (default second person --
 the evoked is not the subject after all) imperative "do something."  I suppose this resolves to a hortative, but it seems unduly complex.   Of course, this applying Lojbanic precision in tp, which is quite inappropriate.
> I'm not at all sure it works that way, that not being particularly adverbial
> for one thing. Simple sequence or something like 'kama la' seems more
> natural for this sort of thing. It is still not clear why the 'o.'adverbial phrases are phrases(!) which, as an adverb, have influenceon the whole phrase it belongs to. it's the only way to explain why'la' can have time modifiers as well as conditional phrases (or youshould tell me an other catch-all way to see it) and it gives you agreat deal of liberty in expression.But adverbs have fairly specific functions (time , place, manner, intensity, and so on).  Sequence doesn't seem to fit into that, though I suppose the general sense of condition might apply "When I  do  so-and-so, you do such-and-such," though that doesn't seem to be quite what you intend.  'la" seems also to have a variety of meta-functions: commenting on the fact announced or the source of the information or some of the other Lojbanic cmavo functions of sentential scope.  (maybe even topic and prenex quantifiers?).  Note, incidentally, that sequence is not strictly a modification rather than a correlation.--
 . Looking for last minute shopping deals? Find them fast with Yahoo! Search.