---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2008-01-18T15:31:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\-----
 Original Message ----
From: AJK <[ikojba@gmail.com](mailto://ikojba@gmail.com)\
>To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent): Friday, January 18, 2008 3:13:25 AMSubject: Re: \[tokipona\] \[toki luka pona\] nimi li "mi"On Jan 17, 2008 8:04 PM, John E Clifford <kali9putra@yahoo. com
> wrote:

> -----
 Original Message ----

> From: AJK <ikojba@gmail. com
>> To: tokipona@yahoogroup s.com
> Sent: Thursday, January 17, 2008 10:24:38 AM
> Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] \[toki luka pona\] nimi li "mi"
> On Jan 17, 2008 4:20 PM, John E Clifford <kali9putra@ yahoo. com
> wrote:

> 
> No, see P4 in jan Setepo's grammar: 'o' precedes the verb in imperatives,
> 
> but the subject in optatives and (as here, I assume) hortatives.
> That would be another exception, alongside of mi and sina without li.
> Furtheron, in the lessons of jan Pije at the point where he explains
> o, you can find for example "mi mute o ..." which is just like the
> same.
> 
>>> Actually, this seems anomolous. 'o' functions to 1) mark a vocative, coming
> after the evocation and 2) to mark directive use, coming before the
> subject, if any.Coming before the verb. As o indicates an imperative, it relates tothe verb, not to the subject.This is interpretive, of course, and there is notoriously no umique solution, but in P4 'o' always relates to the subject.
> When the two occur together, the double 'o' collapses to
> one. In the 'mi mute o pali' case we have first person evocation "Hey us",
> then a (default second person --
 the evoked is not the subject after all)
> imperative "do something." I suppose this resolves to a hortative, but it
> seems unduly complex. Of course, this applying Lojbanic precision in tp,
> which is quite inappropriate.Never heard about a hortative. And remember that you use here the wayjan Pije clarifies the subject, not the essence of the construction.The essentional way it works is quite easy, but English essentiallylacks that kind of constructions.Hortatives are for exhortation, not commanding but urging or suggesting.  As noted, it is not clear that there is --
 outside of some interpretation (grammar) --
 an essence.  I think the two points about 'o' (which could perhaps be reduced to one) are about as close as one can get.
> 
> I'm not at all sure it works that way, that not being particularly
> adverbial
> 
> for one thing. Simple sequence or something like 'kama la' seems more
> 
> natural for this sort of thing. It is still not clear why the 'o.'
> adverbial phrases are phrases(!) which, as an adverb, have influence
> on the whole phrase it belongs to. it's the only way to explain why
> 'la' can have time modifiers as well as conditional phrases (or you
> should tell me an other catch-all way to see it) and it gives you a
> great deal of liberty in expression.
>>> But adverbs have fairly specific functions (time , place, manner, intensity,
> and so on).English influence. This is how the English linguistic people classifythem, but it's not true about all languages. In Esperanto, we expressmost nuances with all kinds of adverbs, whose meaning even can becomeconditional. (Example: Priparolante tion pliafoje mi ne refarus tion:mi toki sin lon ni la mi pali ala e ni)In toki pona we need to take the broadest meaning to be able to coverit all. Otherwise toki pona would be way too precise.So far as I can see, the meaning of 'la' is pretty broad, but within that, it serves various specific functions by use of specific constructions.  Sequence, for example, seems to me to usually use temporal words, if marked at all.  that is, it is not an obvious reading of mere conditionality.  tp is not automatically precise, but it is not willy-nilly sloppy either.  (I don't see the equivalence between the esperanto and the tp, the one being subjunctive and the other declarative (not that I know how to do a subjunctive in tp).)
> Sequence doesn't seem to fit into that, though I suppose the
> general sense of condition might apply "When I do so-and-so, you do
> such-and-such, " though that doesn't seem to be quite what you intend.It does come quite near to the intended meaning this way.Well, except that it appears to be general rather than specific.
> 'la"
> seems also to have a variety of meta-functions: commenting on the fact
> announced or the source of the information or some of the other Lojbanic
> cmavo functions of sentential scope. (maybe even topic and prenex
> quantifiers? ). Note, incidentally, that sequence is not strictly a
> modification rather than a correlation.You are thinking rather complex. You are right in that 'la' indicatesa correlation, but in fact it is clear what kind of a correlation itis, and that's the modification we defined in your case as aconditional and some other things, and in my case as an adverbialphrase which as such can take many different roles.Well, language situations are complex and trying to unpack them is often detail work.  tp seems to do correlations fairly explicitly, using 'la' to be sure but not alone.  But this is all --
 as with 'o' --
 a mtter of interpretation and, of course, if the message gets through, the means are interesting only in retrospect.  the problem was, initially, that the message did not get through  (the the problemwas more with the (superfluous?) 'o' than with 'la'. . Be a better friend, newshound, and know-it-all with Yahoo! Mobile. Try it now.