---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-01-09T21:00:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
What I have so far:jan Setepo's EBNF(or so) grammarsome notes on MY pronunciation (below) and some attempts at plausiblegeneralizationd (which Ihope others will correct along with notes on their pronunciations).some notes on transformations (actually one note at the moment --
 below again)Are there further suggestion --
 or (ideal) contributions?My pronunciation:Vowels in stressed syllables tend to be longer in both senses of the word: a isah (unstressedschwa), e is ay (yes, diphthong --
 hey, I'm an American English speaker; what doyouexpect?)(unstressed eh e.g bet), i is ii (diph again(unstressed ih, e.g. it), ois oh (diph)(unstressed aw or so), u as food (ustressed as good).Consonants also follow the American pattern: initial markedly aspirated, othersless so. I noticea tendency to move the conosonat to its English original if there appears to bean etymologicalconnection (whether real or not) so pini comes out closer to fini and tomo todomo.Another tendency is for the stress in three-syllable words to slide to thesecond syllable in lessstudied speech (soWEYli rather than SOWweli, aKEYsi for AHkesi). This does nothappen in thewords that look like Finnish, utala and pakala, for some reason. Stress getslost almost entirelyon syncategorematics: la, li, e --
 not sure about en and aun, which I have notused much.TransformationsA li BC e D: ni li E =
> BCDA li E (and a similar thing with ni in otherpositions). If any ofthese items is complex pi is inserted, though there is probably an upper limiton how many pis onecan use in a single clump. C and D are both optional in the LHS and anythingbut B may be omittedin the RHS, even if present in the LHS.This last is true generally; in particular, transitive verbs may occur withouttheor object:ona li moku is equally "He eats/is eating" and "He is food."Definitions for words here are given for as many of the categories from thegrammar as apply (sofar). This includes automatic entries: every noun can be a modifier "pertainingsomehow to N" andevery modifier a noun "the property M" (and similarly for verbs). Especiallyitems marked asmodals, interjections and (a new category) conditionals are somewhat expandedfrom jan Setepo'slist in the light of either recorded usage or my own sense of how thing ought towork (subject todiscussion of course). I will try to print out each definition as I finish it,so that discussioncan occur before anything goes into the final (ut nunc) format.