---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2009-08-03 11:40:37 UTC
nestinglevel: 2
---
If the whole expression were the subject or an object in the sentence, e.g. mi sona pona e jan ni pi kalama musi EN pi pona mute lukin.  

> Betreff: Re: \[tokipona\] "pi" suggestion  
> Datum: Montag, 3. August 2009, 12:33  
>    
> Why would I want to say "jan pi  
> kalama musi EN pi pona mute lukin" when I can just say  
> "jan pi kalama musi li pona lukin mute"?  
> yahoo.de>  
> Subject: \[tokipona\] "pi" suggestion  
> s.com  
> Date: Sunday, 2 August, 2009, 6:24 PM  
>    
> jan ali pi toki pona o, toki!  
>    
> Some time ago, the problem of using several "pi"  
> constructions in one sentence was discussed. Here are my  
> If two pi expressions refer to one basic word, they should  
> be separated by "en" as in "jan pi kalama  
> musi EN pi pona mute lukin" = a very attractive  
> singer" (both pi phrases refer to jan). If the second  
> pi phrase refers to the first pi phrase, no "en"  
> is necessary, as in "lon open pi tenpo sike pi nanpa tu  
> la, jan lili li open tawa" (at the beginning of his  
> second year, the baby begins to walk). Here, the first pi  
> phrase refers to "open" and the second to  
> "tenpo sike". Whoever dislikes these constructions  
> is of course free to split such sentences up into two  
> although this would increase the wordiness.  
> mi wile sona e pilin pi sina mute.  
> jan Elumutu  
> \[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]  
> Get your new Email address!  
> Grab the Email name you&#39;ve always wanted before  
> someone else does!  
> http://mail.  
> promotions. yahoo.com/ newdomains/ aa/  
> \[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]  
>