---
author: "Jim Henry"
date: 2009-06-12 19:30:37 UTC
nestinglevel: 4
---
> [_Post by jan\_sewe_](/7s5ntBMu/how-fast-do-you-write-toki-pona#post4)  
> However I don't like long tp texts because I can't understand them. You shouldn't try to compare tp with other languages that have more words.  
> 

I don't think length of text in TP is a problem per se, so much as  
texts that try to convey ideas on a high level of abstraction for  
which TP is not very suitable.  
  
Kate's question arose from a thread where we were talking about  
what would be a challenging but attainable goal for writing in a  
conlang (or perhaps more generally, in a language one isn't  
perfectly fluent in). National Novel Writing Month is a yearly  
event where amateur writers encourage one another while all  
trying to accomplish a similar goal at the same time: writing  
a complete 50,000 word novel between November 1 and  
November 30. For most people, doing that in one's native  
language is a challenging but attainable goal. Doing 40,000  
or 30,000 words in another language one has near-native  
fluency in would also be challenging but attainable. But what  
would be a reasonable goal for writing in a language one  
has a much lower level of fluency in, or which is itself not  
entirely complete (so you will probably have to coin new words  
or work out grammatical issues while writing a text of any  
great length)?  
  
I suggest, rather than trying to write exactly 200 words in  
Toki Pona (or whatever other conlang) and see how long it  
takes, just write a text of whatever length, note the time  
one starts and finishes, do a word count on the resulting  
text, and do the math to see how many words per minute  
one averaged. I'm fixing to do that with Toki Pona and  
my own gzb.  
  
....OK, this 137-word vignette took me 306 seconds to  
write in a quick off-the-cuff first draft, so about 27 words  
per minute.  
  
  
jan lili tu tu wan li lon. o lukin e ma ni: tomo pi kama sona pi jan  
lili li lon. ma musi li lon tomo ni. tenpo suno mute la, jan lili  
lli kama tawa ma musi ni li musi.  
  
jan Janu li toki e ni: "mi mute o musi e toki awen 'jan lawa pi sike  
ike'. mi jan Awakon.'  
  
jan Tami li toki e ni: "tenpo ali la sina jan Akawon! ni li pona ala  
tawa mi. mi wile jan Awakan. sina o jan Falami."  
  
jan Lisa li toki e ni: "mi jan Ejowen. mi utala pona."  
  
jan Keti li toki e ni: "tenpo pini la sina jan Ejowen. mi jan Aliwen.  
jan Aliwen li wawa ala. tenpo ni la mi wile jan Ejowen."  
  
jan lili li toki utala li musi ala. ike a.  
  
\---  
Jim Henry  
http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/