---
author: "John E. Clifford"
date: 2007-10-02T17:23:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "Matthew Martin" <matt@...
> wrote:

>> Re: calques (and neologisms in general)
>> nimi li lon ala la mi mute li pali e nimi sin. nimi sin li sona ala
> tawa jan ale la mi mute li kama sona e sona ona tawa jan ale.
>> I'm reasoning by how people use acronyms in written text. The first
> usage is defined, then used "idiomatically" thereafter. The need to
> be able to coin idioms is especially necessary for abstractions. I
> can coin a phrase for lion by picking out a few salient features and
> using them to modify soweli, but phrases like the following are much
> harder to coin a phrase.Fair enough. I was just objecting to taking over an English idiomwithout an explanation (OK, I don't like the English idiom either for tp).
> lie, v mi ken ala \[lie?\] tawa sina.toki pi lon ala?
> honor, noun, mi jo e \[honor?\]I suspect that, as usual for abstractions, this wants to be rewordedin a concrete way.
> beauty, noun, mi pali tawa \[beauty?\] I work for beauty/to create
> beatiful things.mi pali e ijo pona? mi pali tawa ni: mi pali e ijo pona.
> abstract, adj, verb. nanpa sona li sona \[abstract?\]. nanpa sona li
> \[abstracts\] tan lon. Math is abstract. It abstracts from reality.I suppose 'sona nanpa' is meant. Probably something involving'pilin,'but the details have never been needed (in tpland abstractionsjust would never be talked about or used --
 and we can usually getaround such talk even in the real world).
> fast/slow. mi pali \[slow?\]. mi lukin \[fast?\] e lipu nimi.paraphrased 'mi pali e mute lon tenpo lili' and 'lili lon tenpo mute'
> jan ale li sona ala sona e nimi pona tawa ni mute?
>> Also, on the topic of coining phrases in toki pona, some words seem
> like they'd be easier to translate if we could embed verbs into noun
> phrase, E.g. cheetah.
>> soweli Cheetah li tawa kepeken noka tu tu li mu wawa li tawa wawa.
> A cheetah is an animal that goes on four legs, roars, runspowerfully.Three things the cheetah \*does\*
>> soweli \[ ? \] li tawa wawa e mi
> ? soweli pi tawa kepeken noka tu tu pi mu wawa pi tawa wawa li tawawawa e mi
> A cheetah is chasing me.'ona li tawa e mi' means "it moves/d me' not "it chases/d me," notthat I have a good idiom for "chase"I suppose the official way to do this would be to spell out in asentence or two what the critter is/does, then say "it is chasing me."Alternatively, we get an idiom for "cheetah" and use it. I doesn'thave to be a complete description (or even a description at all), itjust has to pick out the right thing.
>> It looses a lot turning the li's into pi's. All the modifiers to
> soweli now feel static.Yeah; this generally doesn't work satisfactorily. And the way you haveit it is a single complex noun phrase, with each chunk modifying allthat went before, which may be OK, but is messy.
> mi tawa,
>> jan Matthew Martin
>>> On 10/2/07, John E Clifford <clifford-j@...
> wrote:

> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> ---
 Matthew Martin <matt@...
> wrote:

> 
>> 
> 
> toki,
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> I had in mind, "firstly"
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> I suppose I could have said, "mi pana wan e ilo tawa jan" or avoided
> 
> 
> adverbs altogether, "mi pana e ilo wan tawa jan" but that shifts the
> 
> 
> meaning slightly, from doing the first of many actions to giving the
> 
> 
> first of many things to give.
> 
>> 
> "nanpa wan la" Not sure what 'pana wan' means --
 I think "gave once"
> 
> "pana e ijo"? a thing, not specifically a tool?
> 
>> 
> 
> wan la mi moku pini e kili. First I'll finish eating an apple.
> 
>> 
> Does 'moku pini' mean 'eat completely, devour' as opposed to 'pinimoku' 'stop/finish eating'
> 
> Some discussion is needed.
> 
>> 
> 
> mi moku pini wan e kili. ? wan modifies completely, whichdoesn't help
> 
>> 
> No, 'wan' modifies 'moku pini' not just 'pini.'
> 
>> 
> 
> mi moku wan pini e kili. ? pini modifies firstly, which doesn't help
> 
>> 
> Similarly, 'pini' modifies 'moku wan,' not just 'wan.'
> 
>> 
> 
> mi moku pini moku wan e kili. ? I'm not sure this is grammatical,
> 
> 
> but it does keep the adverbs from interfering with each other
> 
>> 
> But now the modification is the scarcely intelligible (((mokupini) moku)wan)
> 
>> 
> 
> all of these examples suffer from an inability to differentiate
> 
> 
> cardinal from ordinal (singularly, firstly)
> 
>> 
> wan - cardinal, nanpa wan - ordinal
> 
>> 
>> 
> 
> 
>> poki kama pi waso telo – water fowl typing, duck typing
> 
> 
> 
>ni li seme?
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> Duck typing is a phrase from computer programming language analysis,
> 
> 
> where types (think parts of speech), are determined by how they are
> 
> 
> used, not by how they are declared (think dictionary look up). The
> 
> 
> name comes from the dictum, "If it walks like a duck, talks like a
> 
> 
> duck, it's a duck"
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> I'm not sure where the profession modifier should go for professions
> 
> 
> and credentials. It strikes me as a question of style.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> mi tawa,
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> jan Matthew Martin
> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
> -----
Original Message-----

> 
> 
> From: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com) \[mailto:[tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\] On
> 
> 
> Behalf Of Rodrigo PORTELA SÁNCHEZ
> 
> 
> Sent: Tuesday, October 02, 2007 2:40 AM
> 
> 
> To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\
> 
> 
> Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] poki kama pi waso telo
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 2007/10/2, Matthew Martin <matt@...
>:
> 
> 
> 
> toki,
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> wan la mi pana e sona pi poki kama pi waso telo.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> sina wile toki e seme kepeken e kulupu nimi "wan la"? mi sonaala pona
> 
> 
> e kepeken toki sina.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> poki – box, abstractly—category
> 
> 
> 
> poki kama – to put in a box, to categorize, to type
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> "poki kama" li "poki". A "poki kama" must be some kind of "kama"
> 
> 
> (apparently, a coming one, or one used to make something happen...).
> 
> 
> I'm a little sleepy while writing this yet, but I'd say "to put
> 
> 
> something in a box" is "(li) (kama) lon e ijo lon poki" or "(li)kama
> 
> 
> e ijo lon poki".
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> poki kama pi waso telo – water fowl typing, duck typing
> 
> 
> ni li seme?
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> toki pona li jo mute poki tan nimi.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> ..."li jo e poki nimi mute"... if using "poki" in this sense.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> jan sona toki pi Noam Chomsky li toki e ni
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> jan Noam Chomsky pi sona toki? jan Noam Chomsky (Nowan Sonki?)li jan
> 
> 
> sona pi sona toki li toki e ni?
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> mi tawa.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> jan Loliko
> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
> Yahoo! Groups Links
> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
>>