---
author: "frpeterjackson"
date: 2008-08-29T01:35:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), François SCHWICKER <bubi4919@...
> wrote:

>> ma ali la tomo mani li pakala. tenpo pini mute la jan lawa Sijatelo
> (Seattle) li toki e ni : "jan li ken ala moku e mani". ona li toki e
> lon.
>> jan Kanso
>jan lawa Sijatelo li toki ala e ni!o lukin e ni:[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chief_SeattleThere](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chief_SeattleThere) is a controversy about a speech by Sealth concerning theconcession of native lands to the settlers.Even the date and location of the speech has been disputed,\[4\] but themost common version is that on March 11, 1854, Sealth gave a speech ata large outdoor gathering in Seattle. The meeting had been called byGovernor Isaac Ingalls Stevens to discuss the surrender or sale ofnative land to white settlers. Doc Maynard introduced Stevens, whothen briefly explained his mission, which was already well understoodby all present.\[1\]Sealth then rose to speak. He rested his hand upon the head of themuch smaller Stevens, and declaimed with great dignity for an extendedperiod. No one alive today knows what he said; he spoke in theLushootseed language, and someone translated his words into ChinookIndian trade language, and a third person translated that into English.Some years later, Dr. Henry A. Smith wrote down an English version ofthe speech, based on Smith's notes. It was a flowery text in whichSealth purportedly thanked the white people for their generosity,demanded that any treaty guarantee access to Native burial grounds,and made a contrast between the God of the white people and that ofhis own. Smith noted that he had recorded "...but a fragment of his\[Sealth's\] speech". Recent scholarship questions the authenticity ofSmith's supposed translation.\[5\]In 1891, Frederick James Grant's History of Seattle, Washingtonreprinted Smith's version. In 1929, Clarence B. Bagley's History ofKing County, Washington reprinted Grant's version with some additions.In 1931, John M. Rich reprinted the Bagley version in Chief Seattle'sUnanswered Challenge. In the 1960s, articles by William Arrowsmith andthe growth of environmentalism revived interest in Sealth's speech.Ted Perry introduced anachronistic material, such as shooting buffalofrom trains, into a new version for a movie called "Home"\[6\], producedfor the Southern Baptist Convention's Christian Radio and TelevisionCommission.\[7\] The movie sunk without a trace, but this newest andmost fictional version is the most widely known. Albert Furtwangleranalyzes the evolution of Sealth's speech in Answering Chief Seattle(1997).\[8\]The speech attributed to Sealth, as re-written by others, has beenwidely cited as "powerful, bittersweet plea for respect of NativeAmerican rights and environmental values"\[6\], but there is littleevidence that he actually spoke it. A similar controversy surrounds apurported 1855 letter from Sealth to President Franklin Pierce, whichhas never been located and, based on internal evidence, is considered"an unhistorical artifact of someone's fertile literary imagination".\[4\]