---
author: "galactonerd"
date: 2008-04-11 19:37:53 UTC
nestinglevel: 2
---
sina lon ma Mewika anu Elopa anu Asija la, "North" li "nasin lete,"  
"South" li "nasin seli." sina lon ma Oselija la, "North li "masin  
seli," "South" li "nasin lete."  
  
lon kulupu pi jan pi ma ale la, "North" li "nasin lete pi ma Mewika"  
anu "nasin seli pi ma Oselija" anu "nasin pi telo lete." "South" li  
"nasin pi ma Antasika" anu "nasin pi ma lete."  
  
"East" li "nasin pi sewi suno," "West" li "nasin pi anpa suno."  
  
tan ni la, "Southwest" li "nasin seli pi nasin pi anpa suno."  
  
mi mute li toki ala e ni tan seme: "Left" li "nasin pi sitelen Loma,"  
"Right" li "nasin pi sitelen Alapi?"  
  
jan Sosuwa  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/qMna8iep/language-without-left-right#post4)  
> Which brings us back to the ever popular questions of how to say the compass points.  
> \----- Original Message ----  
> Sent: Saturday, April 5, 2008 10:12:09 AM  
> Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] language without left/right  
> In a message dated 4/5/2008 09:01:19 AM Central  
> where is the language without 'left' and 'right' in this thirty-page rant?  
> Sorry, I should have excerpted it, too.  
> It's between the color test ("What color is this woman's blouse?")  
> 

and the Ethnoscience section.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/qMna8iep/language-without-left-right#post4)  
> http://anthro. palomar.edu/ language/ language\_ 5.htm  
> Another example is provided by Guugu Timithirr language speakers of  
> 

the Cape York Peninsula in northeastern Australia. This group of  
Aborigines do not have words for left, right, front, or back. They  
use absolute rather than relative directions. When they refer to  
people or objects in their environment, they use compass directions.  
They would say "I am standing southwest of my sister" rather than "I  
am standing to the left of my sister." Critics of the Sapir-Whorf  
hypothesis would point out that the Aborigines who speak this language  
also usually learn English and can use left, right, front, and back  
just as we do. However, if they do not learn English during early  
childhood, they have difficulty in orienting themselves relatively and  
absolute orientation makes much more sense to them.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/qMna8iep/language-without-left-right#post4)  
> stevo  
>