---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-09-20T21:52:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Matthew Martin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> wrote:

> toki,
>> 
>jan ali li toki ala kepeken ona.
>> Oops, at the time I thought I was doing a double negative. No one speaks
> them anymore.
> "jan ala li toki ala kepeken ona"
>> Does tp use double negatives?Not, I think, with negative effect; your sentence comes out to be (I thinkagain) a slightlyroundabout way of saying that someone speaks them
>> 
>mute la jan mute pi toki moli li toki ala kepeken toki ona.
> I was trying to say, "often, people who know dying languages don't \[even\]
> speak their own language."
>> maybe it would be clearer as:
> "tempo mute la jan mute pi toki moli li toki ala kepeken toki pi ona sama."
> (sama added to indicate I'm referring back to "jan mute" and not some other
> "them")Yes, this is clearer. I am not sure you need the sama; ona seems to refer backto the lastpossible thing and somethiing else needs a noun to identify it. Much discussionneeded.
> 
>jan mute pi toki moli li lon lon ma \*pi\* lawa ike.
> Okay, that's fine too. I guess the next obvious question is how to deal
> with prepositional phrases that modify something other than the verb
> phrase?
>> I fed Dr Seus's cat in the hat
>> (?) mi li pana moku e soweli tomo pi jan "Seus" lon len lawa.
> (?) mi li pana moke e soweli tomo pi len lawa pi jan "Seus"
>> I watch tv in the basement in my underwear.
>> (?) \*lon len anpa la\* mi lukin e sitelin tawa lon tomo anpaNot clear, but possible (I am not sure about "lon" here, but I am always wary ofanything thatlooks to be just English, even though though such are often right).
> (?) mi \*lon len anpa\* li lukin e sitelin tawa lon tomo anpaClearly OK, except for a possible worry about "lon", "mi len e len anpa taso li"is clearly OKthroughout.
> (?) mi lukin e sitelin tawa lon tomo anpa \*lon len anpa\*This looks like your underpants are in the basement (or your basement in yourunderpants) and youare watching tv located in/at them.
> I suspect that the following is correct, albeit repetitious and not quite
> the same (it sounds like a sequence of activities):
>> mi lukin e sitelin tawa lon tomo anpa. mi len e len anpa taso.Clearly OK and saying what you want. You could drop the repeated mi (and theperiod) by using li
> mi tawa tan sitelin tawa lukin,I don't think so, but can only suggest "mi tawa tan ni: mi lukin e sitelen tawa:as analternative.
> jan Matthew Martin
>> On 9/20/07, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

> 
>> 
> Modifier after noun!
> 
> ---
 Matthew Martin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com) <matt%40suburbandestiny.com
>>> 
> wrote:

> 
>> 
> 
> mi lukin e ni lon lipu nimi "New York Times":
> 
>> 
> Probably don't need "nimi"
> 
>> 
> 
> [http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/19/science/19language.html](http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/19/science/19language.html)\
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> tempo ni la toki mute li moli. jan ali li toki ala kepeken ona.
> 
>> 
> This seems to say "Not everybody speaks them" (but that is a disputed
> 
> point) Safer is "jan ala li
> 
> toki kepeken ona"
> 
>> 
> 
> kin la mi lukin e nimi mute lon lipu "National Geographic"
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> [http://www.nationalgeographic.com/mission/enduringvoices/](http://www.nationalgeographic.com/mission/enduringvoices/)\
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> ni lipu li jo e sitelen ma. ni sitelen ma li pana e ma kepeken toki moli
> 
> 
> mute.
> 
>> 
> "lipu ni" "sitelen ma ni"
> 
>> 
> 
> jan mute pi toki moli li lon lon ma kepeken lawa ike.
> 
>> 
> Don't need second "lon", it's inherent in the first. Strictly, the
> 
> "kepeken" phrase modifies the
> 
> whole sentence, not "ma," as I assume you intended. Just use "pi."
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> mute la jan mute pi toki moli li toki ala kepeken toki ona.
> 
>> 
> "mute la"? "for the most part"? Not sure this is right (Not sure about a
> 
> lot of conditions,
> 
> though.)
> 
>> 
> 
> toki ona li lawa ala! kin la ona li toki kepeken toki ante. taso ona li
> 
> wili
> 
> 
> ala.
> 
> 
>> 
>> 
> 
> jan Mathew Martin
> 
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>>