---
author: "Matthew Martin"
date: 2007-09-26T18:08:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Oops.  At least my errors are becoming obvious to me in retrospect.
>Why "the two of us" "we two"?Why as in what I was thinking: I had in mind "I'm answering an question that one person asked me"Why as in, why not stick to "mi": Modifiers to the pronoun are an established pattern in toki pona and they serve to replicate the effect of pronouns we like to use a lot in European languages, eg. mi mute, ona mute, sina mute.If toki pona isn't just a thin relex of Indo-european, than we should be able to pick any pronoun modifier that is (nearly) immediately obvious in it's intent.  For example, encoding gender into the 1st person like Japanese does (eg.e boku = mi mije), encoding numbers other than 1 and 
>1., eg. the Hawaiian dual pronoun.I suspect that in those cultures that use dual number and the gender of "I/me" is obvious from context, so they probably use it to indicate some other subtle thing as well, which I may be lacking from my cultural lexicon.mi wili sona e ni: kepeken seme li toki e nimi pi "Polite speech" e nimi "Vous" pi toki Kanse e ante mute.It is discouraging that it is so much easier to generate insults in toki pona than it is to say "please", "thank you" and so on--
 "pona" doesn't quite work all the time.  [http://www.tokipona.org/lereveil.html](http://www.tokipona.org/lereveil.html) sina li pona e kulupu nimi mi. pona!  You corrected my sentence. Good. (Is this praise or gratitude?)For "please", I can't figure out where to put the "pona"o sina li pona e kulupu nimi mi.  pona o sina li pona e mi kulupu nimi  (?)  This sounds like I talking "to the good"pona la sina li pona e mi kulupu nimi. (?) Sounds like "Fortunately you will correct my sentence"pona. sina li pona e mi kulupu nimi.  (?) Good.  You will fix my sentence. --
 not polite sounding at all.sina li wile ala wile pona e mi kulupu nimi. Do you want to fix my sentence? This might just be an English way of being polite, since indirect questions are generally more polite than direct.wile ala wile la sina li  pona e mi kulupu nimi. If you want, you can fix my sentence.  (Literally it implies the request is optional, but in English we know that this is a polite request, not a optional suggestion)mi mute tawa, (my royal butt is moving along)jan Matthew MartinOn 9/26/07, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:
---
 Matthew Martin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> wrote:

> toki,
> 
> nimi mute ni li pona tawa mi! 
> 
> kulupu sinpin – head phrase
> kulupu monsi – predicate
> 
> mi tu li jo ala e "Context" la nimi li sona e ijo mute. taso mi tu li
> jo e "Context" la nimi li sona e ijo wan.
> 
> mi tu li toki e lawa pi jan lawa la "nimi lawa" li sona e "Legal
> jargon" kepeken toki Inli. Why "the two od us" "we two"?
> mi tu li toki e nimi pi jan ma ante lajan pi ma ante - people from another country not other people from the country.
> "nimi ante" li sona e "Loan words" kepeken toki Inli. mi pilin e ni:
> jan ale li sona e nimi pi jan ale la jan sona pi toki sona li sitelen
> e lipu pi toki sona kepeken Inli. "sona toki" linguistics? "toki sona" is maxim adage, proverb, etc.\*taso\* mi wile e pona mi toki pona.I think you mean "mi wile pona e toki pona mi" I want to improve my tp, not I want a good talkingversion of my good.
> mi kepeken e ilo pona e ilo ike.
> 
> mi tawa,
> 
> jan Matthew Martin
> 
> ----------------------------------------------------------

> From: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com) \[mailto:[tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\] On
> Behalf Of Josan Kapo
> Sent: Tuesday, September 25, 2007 7:12 PM
> To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\
> Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: mi wile e nimi mute lon Toki Pona
> 
> ken la: 
> 
> subject – nimi lawa (lawa pi kulupu nimi)
> adverbial clause – kulupu pi nimi ante
> intransitive verb – nimi pali pini
> direct object, indirect object – nimi kama jo
> particle (as distinct from phoneme), e.g. la, li, e – nimi poki / nimi
> poki lili ? (nimi ni li tu e 
> kulupu nimi, li poki tawa kulupu sinpin anu kulupu monsi.)
> 
> kulupu nimi ni li sona musi taso. mi pilin e ni: lon toki pona la,
> nimi mute li sama. ken la 
> nimi Adjective en nimi Adverb li sama, li "nimi ante" taso. ken la ni
> li pona mute. sina pilin 
> ala pilin e seme? 
> 
> mi tawa-jan Josan
> 
> 
>