---
author: "Raven Silverwings"
date: 2004-06-13T07:16:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\
> lipu sina li suwi lukin. although i have a hard time trying to read
> the site, you use a compleatly diffrent style of toki pona , i
> guess, then anything ive ever read before. although i guess itlooks
> like you use it correctly, lol, but i just have trouble knowing
> certain words your compiling and what they may mean, have youlooked
> at the dictionary that puts words togeather? it may make it alittle
> easier to interpret what you are saying if you used thecombonations
> that are commonly used.Do I? I just use TP, hopefully correct. Here's a translation, if ithelps:mi wile e ni: sina kama pona mute tawa lipu mi. lipu ni li tawa tokipi pona ale. nimi ona li toki pona.(I wish that you come very well to my page. This page is for thelanguage of all goodness. It's name is toki pona.toki pona li pona pi ale mi mute. toki pona li toki pona. toki ponali pona lukin li pona pilin li pona kute. toki pona li pona.(good speech is goodness of our lives. good speech is goodcommunication. Good speech is visually good and good to feel andaudibly good. Good speech is good.)nasin pona mi li nasin Kolisu. taso tenpo pini la mi jan Puta li janWika. nasin ale li pona. taso toki pona li kin nasin.My good way is Christianity. but in-the-past, I was a Buddhist, and aWiccan. All ways are good. but good speech is also a way.)tawa mi, nasin pi toki pona li pona. pona li:(to me, the way of good speech is good. Goodness is:)pona(pona li lon nimi pi toki pona. tan pi toki pona li pona. sina kamasona e toki pona la sina kama jo e pona. )good.(goodness is in the name of good speech. reason of good speech isgood. (if) you learn good speech, you will receive goodness.)olin(toki pona li olin. olin li lon toki pona. lon pona, jan li kamalukin e olin. sina kama sona e toki pona la sina kama sona e olin piijo pona mute.)love.(good speech is love. love is in good speech. in goodness, peoplecome to look \[for\] love. If you learn good speech, you will learnlove of many good things.)nasin(toki pona li nasin. ona li nasin pi pona ale.ale li nasin tawa pona ale. sina kama sona e toki pona la sinakepeken e nasin pona tawa pona.)a way.(good speech is a way. it is a way of all goodness. everything is away to wholesome goodness. if you learn good speech, you will use agood way to goodness.)ale (toki pona li nasin ale. ale li pona li ike. taso ale li ken pona.ken li ale. tan li ale. sina kama sona e toki pona la sina kama sonamute e ale pona.)life.(good speech is life's way. life is good and bad. but life is a goodableness. ableness is life. reason is life. if you learn good speech,you will learn a good life alot.)sona(toki pona li sona pona. sona mute li pona. sina wile sona mute latoki pona li ken pana e sona suli. sona suli li tan ijo lili samanasin pi toki pona. sina kama sona e toki pona la sina kama sonamute.)knowlege.(good speech is good knowledge. to know alot is good. If you wish toknow alot, good speech cane give great knowledge. great knowledge isa little item-like reason (esperanto: razonaj'eto) like the way ofgood speech. if you learn good speech, you will learn alot.)I hope that looks correct.