---
author: "Yvonna Ware"
date: 2002-05-21T23:36:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 1
---

>jan sewi = god, deity, priest, holy or magical person

I would not define a priest with the same word as a god... that seems
incorrect to me. I would either define the priest or the god with a
different word... 'jan sewi ale' = god, or perhaps the other way around...
'jan sewi lili' = priest.

>sijelo pona = health

This is not right, because health can be good or bad. It might mean
'healthy', but not just 'health'.

>sitelen toki = script, letters

I agree with this, but this implies that other uses of the written word
should be defined by 'sitelen toki', and not just 'toki' all alone...
including IRC. Also, see the paragraph below about 'toki awen'.


>tenpo la ., kama la . = if ., then .

I'm unfamiliar with this type of punctuation... is that an approximation of
a semicolon (;) for intl keyboards that do not have one

>toki awen = written language, book, website

I understand this reference, but you are creating two conflicting
definitions for what is the same thing... 'sitelen toki' vs 'toki awen'. I
think it would be more appropriate to use 'toki luken' for written
language... speech you see. 'luken toki' would mean 'to read'. I believe
'toki awen' would be more appropriate to apply to libraries, places whose
purpose is to preserve knowledge, and books only when used in the
appropriate context instead of all the time. 'sitelen toki' seems more
appropriate for picture books, cave drawings, or hieroglyphics... perhaps
chinese lettering, but that is more of a stretch.

Nice list of definitions. Some of course could be more specific... 'tomo
tawa kon' for 'space shuttle' seems appropriate. It looks at only one aspect
of the shuttle and defines it from there. Ambiguities such as this are
inherent in the language of course... but if I were making a canonical
dictionary, I would simply not define words that are so rarely used,
specific, or ambiguous.

For example, 'tomo unpa' = 'bedroom'. The other definitions are good,
because they are words associated only with sex. But a bedroom would more
often be 'tomo lape'. For a child, it may also be 'tomo musi'. By defining
it with 'tomo unpa' in your dictionary, you fixate its purpose. Better to
not define it at all, and leave ambiguous words for people to define
themselves, as context dictates. Define unambiguous words, or at least give
the context in which a definition is useful... telling your children to go
to their 'tomo unpa' would be rather confusing... possibly even unsettling.
Inviting your friend into your 'tomo unpa' (to look at your new poster)
could be taken in a rather different way than you expected, with enjoyable,
embarrassing, or painful results depending on your relationship. :-)