---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-09-21T16:57:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Matthew Martin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> wrote:

> ma ante li jo sona kule ante. jan pi nanpa lili li pilin e ni: pimeja
> li
> moli. jan ante pilin e ni: pimeja li tenpo pi wan pi jan tu (anu li
> wan e
> meli e mije)
>> jan pi toki pona li lon ma ale. ona li jo sona ante tawa kule.
>> jan mute li sona e ni: laso li ike pilin. jan pi toki pona li lon ma
> ale la
> toki pona li lo sona kule seme? mi jo ala kule seme la mi kepeken ala
> e nimi
> kepeken kule. seme li sona e "pilin laso" anu "sona pimeja"?
>> There are five color words, which is 4% of the base vocabulary. It
> would be
> a pity to only be able to use these for physical light of certain wave
> lengths.
>> tenpo pini la sona sina ale li pona tawa mi,
>> jan Matthew Martin
>> My attempt to find references to colors in yahoo group--
 very few
> attempts
> to use color to mean anything outside of literal physical color.
> ----------------------------------------------------

> 2146--
 "tenpo ni li tenpo laso" time of blue(?)
> 1472--
 "ma suli en sewi laso" great land and sweet blue(?)
> 1760--
 "sike nena laso" blue bumpy circle(?)
>> 1435 --
"tenpo mute la nasin pi jan pali kulupu li nimi e nasin loje
> anu
> nasin "left"." (literal translation)
> 2150 --
"tenpo loje" (red time, summer, proposed idiomatic meaning)
>> 340 --
 "ken la tenpo pimeja pi toki pona li lon?" Dark times
> 925 --
 "ijo walo pimeja lili" something about brains (grey matter)
>>As you note, different cultures give different significances to colors. So far--
 as you alsonote --
 tp culture has not come up with its own range of meanings. I thik itwill be a mistake toborrow unthinkingly from any one culture, but I don't quite see how specificallytp idioms aregoing to arise. There is some claim that color symbolism is universal and theapparentdifferences are matters of stressing different aspects of the situation: Westernwhite forweddings stress the presumed purity of the bride, Eastern white funerals stressthe purifyingreligious nature of the event, they (I forget what anthropologists) say.The exampes you give ae a mixed bag: the red of socialism is apparently a fairlyworldwide icon,though the US has reversed that for the last couple of elections. The gray ofbrains is simplydescriptive (Poirot notwithstanding). "sewi" is "high" not "sweet" (suwi --
 apart of a messycluster), so I suppose that whole is just an elaborate idiom for Heaven. sikenena laso is a bluecrown, but I don't know what that means. "tenpo laso" seems to be a borrowingfrom English andthus suspect. The sidiom for summer seems to be original, though I don't get itexactly. I thinkthe "tenpo pimeja" may be universal for bad times, but I am not sure.