---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-07-24T12:47:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Marcos Cramer <[marcos.cramer@gmail.com](mailto://marcos.cramer@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> The Wikipedia article is currently still at it's provisional place:
> [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Xoloz/Toki_Pona](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Xoloz/Toki_Pona)\
>> Before it can be moved back to it's proper URL, all its content needs to be
> verified by sources. This has been done almost completely. The only claims
> that still need verification are the following four:
>> \* The language is simple enough that most of its syntax can be expressed in
> fewer than a dozen lines of Extended Backus-Naur form.The simplest way to demonstrate this is to give the definition. Jan Setepo'sphrase structuregrammar is a long way along, just not in strict EBN form. Of course, it isunclear how to provethat this is in fact a grammar od most of tp.
> \* Ideally, the aim of Toki Pona is to reduce all noun phrases to just the
> core noun itself; through context, a noun phrase initially introduced as jan
> utala suli pi pona lukin (handsome important soldier) would eventually be
> reduced through context to jan.It's not clear that this IS a goal, even for the most daoly tpist. On the otherhand, it is afrequently realized poasaibikity in most every language, given enough context. So, where is theproblem?
> \* There is no true passive voice in Toki Pona.Solved by the grammarand the vocabulary: nothing fits either sort of definition--
 grammatical orlexical --
 of a paassive,
> \* The 118-word vocabulary is designed around the principles of living a
> simple life without the complications of modern civilization.
>Here's the hard one; though this may have been the goal, the execution is enoughoff to make theproof that it was so difficult. NSM, for example, would have provided an evenless civilizedvocabulary (though a much harder job at saying anything). The mere inclusion of"mani," forexample, lays a vast --
 and particularly complex --
 slab of modernity inherentin the language.
> (I know that these claims are true; the problem is just that we need some
> sources that verify their truth).There are two problems: find the evidence (not that hard in most cases --
 seeabove) and get thepowers that be wikiwise to understand that it IS evidence (not so easy: theseguys apparently havea tack record of being both literal minded about accepting published materialonly and notunderstanding a lot that meets even that requirement. I admire their goals: tokeep wikipediafrom continuing to be the joke it often is, but doubt that they are competent tocarry it off.)
>> Until now the sources used are tokipona.org, jan Pije's lessons, Yerrick's
> article, the Globa end MAil article and the Computerra article. If you can
> find some place on these sites or in these article that verifies one of
> these claims, please let me know. Other serious Toki Piona websites and
> articles can also be used as sources.
>> If we don't have sources for these four claims, we will have to remove them
> from the Wikipedia article.
>> jan Moku
> <[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Citing_sources](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Citing_sources)\
>>