---
author: "bacchus13579"
date: 2002-10-25T01:11:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I'd like to give some commentary on your Toki Pona skills. Anyone whowould like to give counter-criticism to me is absolutely welcome.
> pini pi tenpo suno la mi li kama jaki ala lon poki pi telo seli li
> sona e ni: jan li ken ala ken toki e ale lon toki ale? jan li kenala
> ken toki e ale lon toki pona?I presume that by "pini pi tenpo suno" you meant, "at the end of theday." I really like this phrase, although I've never thought of itbefore. Quite catchy, in my opinion."... mi li kama jaki ala..." I'm guessing you meant to say "I washedmyself." You especially need to remove the "li," because the subjectis simply "mi". After that, the best way to word it would be "...mitelo...," since one meaning of "telo" is "to wash with water"
> tenpo mute la jan li toki e ni: tenpo la jan li ken toki e ijo lon
> toki nanpa wan, kama la jan li ken toki e ijo sama lon toki nanpadu."...lon toki nanpa wan..." doesn't make sense to me. What was it thatyou wanted to say? If you were trying to say that you were talking inthe first language, I would've probably said something like, "mi tokikepeken (using) toki (language) pi (of) nanpa wan (first). I can'treally explain why I think "pi" would work better in this sentence;it just clicked in my head like that."du". The word for two is "tu," but you still got it pretty close. ByToki Pona's phonetic rules, D becomes T when you need to make a TPequivalent of a word that uses D normally, like how (D)eutschland(German for Germany) becomes (T)osi.
> ken la jan li wile kepeken e nimi mute lon toki nanpa du. taso tenpo
> ale la jan li ken pana e sona sama lon toki nanpa du.
> taso mi sona e ni: jan li ken ala toki e ale lon toki pona.I briefly mentioned this in an earlier comment, but I'd like toelaborate a bit more. It seems that to say that you speak IN alanguage is very common across several of the world's majorlanguages. In my opinion, I don't think that anyone can actuallyspeak "inside of" a language. I think it would be much better tosay "kepeken," which means "using". It does indeed make good sense tosay, "I speak using a language."
> jan li ken ala toki e ale kepeken luka pi luka pi luka pi nimi.I don't understand the phrase after "kepeken".
> anu jan li ken toki, taso jan ante li ken ala sona pona.I generally start a new sentence when I want to say "but..."Marraskuu, the creator of the language, prefers a new sentence, too.
> jan li wile toki e ale li wile e seme? luka pi luka pi luka pi nimili
> pona ala. luka pi luka pi luka pi luka pi nimi li pona ala pona?Again, I can't figure out the "luka" phrase. Also, I'd recommendchanging the words "pona ala" to simply "ike" in the second sentence.I'm quite a hypocrite on this, though. I sometimes don't simplify itwhen I should. But, anyhow, that's the more simplistic way ofsaying "bad".
> pona ala! nanpa pona li lon ala. jan li ken ala toki e ale lon tokilili.
> jan li ken ala toki e ale kin lon toki suli.
>> sona li ma suli, taso toki li tomo lili.
>> jan TemunNice sounding name. What does Temun actually represent?