---
author: "yerricde"
date: 2002-10-25T04:22:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In tokipona@y..., "bacchus13579" <kurum3@a...
> wrote:

> "... mi li kama jaki ala..." I'm guessing you meant to say "I
> washed myself." You especially need to remove the "li," because
> the subject is simply "mi". After that, the best way to word
> it would be "...mi telo...," since one meaning of "telo" is
> "to wash with water"Wouldn't it be <mi telo e mi
> for the reflexive? Or doesleaving off the direct object put a verb in "middle voice"?
> "...lon toki nanpa wan..." doesn't make sense to me. What was
> it that you wanted to say? If you were trying to say that you
> were talking in the first language, I would've probably said
> something like,
> mi toki kepeken toki pi nanpa wan
> i talk using language of firstThe confusion arises from the fact that according to Marraskuu'sdictionary, <lon
> means both 'about' a subject and 'in' alanguage. I'd agree with you and suggest using <kepeken
>to mean 'in' a language: <kepeken toki Inli
> = "in English".
> I can't really explain why I think "pi" would work better in
> this sentence; it just clicked in my head like that.Probably because <pi
> makes modifiers bind to other modifiers.In the S-notation that I was notorious for using when I gaveMarraskuu some suggestions back in March, the <pi
> turns((toki nanpa) wan) into (toki pi (nanpa wan))
> "du". The word for two is "tu," but you still got it pretty close.Just an artifact of Latin orthography. Kana and Tengwar, on theother hand...
> 
> jan li ken ala toki e ale kepeken luka pi luka pi luka pi nimi.
>> I don't understand the phrase after "kepeken".< luka pi luka pi luka pi nimi 
> five of five of five of names "one hundred twenty-five words"
> 
> anu jan li ken toki, taso jan ante li ken ala sona pona.
>> I generally start a new sentence when I want to say
> "but..." Marraskuu, the creator of the language, prefers
> a new sentence, too.I have never seen any hard rules posted about how to punctuateToki Pona, other than that only proper nouns are capped.
> 
> jan li wile toki e ale li wile e seme? luka pi luka pi luka
> 
> pi nimi li pona ala. luka pi luka pi luka pi luka pi nimi li
> 
> pona ala pona?
>> Again, I can't figure out the "luka" phrase.125 and 625.For a while, I was investigating a base-five numeral system builton phrases such as "luka pi luka" (25). When I brought it up inefnet #tokipona, Marraskuu soundly rejected it as not simple enoughfor inclusion in the TP core.
> Also, I'd recommend changing the words "pona ala"
> to simply "ike" in the second sentence.In English, "not good" and "bad" have slightly differentconnotations, one including "mediocre" and the other excluding it.
> I'm quite a hypocrite on this, though. I sometimes don't
> simplify it when I should.That's typical of Esperanto speakers, as in that language,"mal-" turns an adjective into its exact opposite. Thus,"malbona" does indeed mean "bad".
> Nice sounding name. What does Temun actually represent?I'd guess 'Damon'.--
Damianwho goes by jan Tepo (TP for my efnet nick 'tepples') in <ma pona
>(the mythical land of TP speakers, akin to Esperantolando)