---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2009-07-25T03:01:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
pona a! toki sina li wile e toki mi lili. 'tenpo' not 'tempo' (though it ispronounced that way and every other language spells it that way --
 we havealmost all done this). Probably, 'jan ante, rather than 'jan sama ala' whichcan (more naturally?) mean 'no siblings' Looking at the trat, I would suggest'kulupu nimi' for 'word phrases'. (The tp dictionary is a list of things thatpeople have used for various purposes. If you have the same purpose, you mightwant to use one of their efforts. Or make a better one on our own. I expectthat some will become idioms (indeed, several have already) but that will justbe norma loquendi, not rules from the dictionary in the sky --
 or on the web,which amounts to the same thing). I don't follow 'sona pi nimi mute wan li musi'even with the trat: 'One meaning of many words (or the meaning of 'one manywords') is amusing --
 sorry I am forgetting some meaning in the outer reaches ofsome of these words.What I have is a couple of excel files (en-tp, tp-en) which list most of thetranslations of words or phrases that I have isolated from the texts on thislist and a few other websites. It is now about a year out of date, with somerecent updates and needs a thorough revision for all sorts of technical reasons.It also has a temporary status since jan Sonja is working on something official.But, if you have excel and I can manage to send it to you, you are welcome tohave it.\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_From: salikh.zakirov <[salikh.zakirov@yahoo.com](mailto://salikh.zakirov@yahoo.com)\
>To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent): Wednesday, July 22, 2009 11:29:52 AMSubject: \[tokipona\] toki! en lipu mute pi nimi pi toki ponami kama sona e toki pona. toki pona li pona tawa mi.Mi wile lukin e lipu mute pi nimi pi toki pona. Tempo ali la, nimi lili pi tokipona li jo e sona.Tan ni la, nimi lili mute pi toki toki pona li jo e sona mute kin. Jan ali liken kepeken e nimi ali.Tan ni la, jan sama ala li lukin la, nimi sama li ken jo e sona sama ala.Taso, sona pi nimi mute wan li musi. Tan ni la, mi wile lukin e sona nimi mute.Tenpo lili pini la, mi kute e ni: jan John Clifford li jo e lipu mute pi nimimute.Nimi li mute mute. Mi wile lukin e lipu mute ni. Ona li lon ala lon iloInternet?Mi ken ala ken lukin e ona?Sina toki tawa mi e lipu mute pi nimi la, sina pana pona tawa mi.Pona mute!Hi! (\* English translation is a richer and approximate translation of toki pona\*)This message is addressed to John Clifford.I study toki pona. I like it.I would like to see a dictionary of toki pona word phrases. At all times, alltoki pona words maintaintheir individual primitive meanings. For this reason, word phrases always canhave many meanings.(\* and so \_normative\_ toki pona dictionary is neither possible, nor desired,according to the will of Kisa, as far as I understand it \*)Anyone can use any words. Threrefore, different people may see differentmeanings in same word phrases.However, it is interesting how word phrases accrue meaning. That's why I wouldlike to see a word phrase collection.Recently, I heard that John Clifford has quite a large collection of tokiponaword phrases.I would like to see it. Is it available anywhere on the internet?Is there any chance to see it?I would greatly appreciate, if you tell me about this glossary.Thank you very much!(\* Words that I am not exactly sure how to express:to mean = jo e sonameaning = sona nimidictionary = lipu \[mute\] pi nimi muteword phrase = nimi mute wan \*)(\* P.S. Corrections and comments are welcome from anyone, not just Mr. Clifford\*)\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]