---
author: "Pije"
date: 2003-05-31T04:04:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
If anyone could not understand the last few posts, here is the gist:Marraskuu, the creator of our Toki Pona, is undergoing a genderchange and is therefore very preoccupied and no longer able to leadthe language community efficiently.I have suggested some sort of a more democratic kulupu to help guidefuture progress in the language, and Marraskuu firmly supported thisidea. However, the effort has fallen by the wayside due to a lack ofsupport.Recently, someone posted to these boards that they'd like to see somechat room logs from the Toki Pona chat room. I have collected twologs and posted them here:[http://www.angelfire.com/cantina/tokipona/text/chat.htmlHowever](http://www.angelfire.com/cantina/tokipona/text/chat.htmlHowever), both of these logs are in English and will not give anyonemuch practice in the language itself. However, this is beyond mycontrol, as it is very difficult to get logs in Toki Pona when thereare only a few loyal visitors to the chat room. And, of course, it ismuch more difficult when there is only one speaker with whom such aconversation could take place. I can not simply create speakers fromthe grass, as much as I wish I could. These two logs are about thebest that can be offered with the current state of things.For anyone who wants genuine Toki Pona to read and practice by, achildren's book, complete with illustrations, has been translatedinto Toki Pona. The Toki Pona is fairly straight-forward and idealfor an intermediate learner. However, for several different reasons,it will not be put on the internet; you will have to come to the TokiPona chat room and request it from me or someone else who has a copy.Thank you and Good Night--
 Pije