---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-05-10T21:36:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 galactonerd <[galactonerd@yahoo.com](mailto://galactonerd@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

> Every tp speaker knows that there are proper adjectives instead of
> proper nouns, but I'm a having a few problems with them.
>> 1) America is "ma Mewika," while an American is "jan Mewika."
> However, some place-names have been given to people as names, and
> some places have been named after people. For example, there is a
> city in Georgia called Savannah, which would be "ma tomo Sawana", and
> some people named Savannah, who would be named "jan Sawana." But
> wouldn't "jan Sawana" also mean "a person from the city of
> Savannah?" Do you have to say "jan pi ma tomo Sawana," or is this
> one of those things that has to be determined by context?Yup!
> 2) How do proper adjectives work with yes/no questions? For example,
> let's say you're looking for someone named Alice. You go to what you
> think is her house and knock. Someone answers the door, and you ask
> her, "Are you Alice?"
>> In Toki Pona, would you say:
>> a) sina jan Alisa ala jan Alisa?
> b) sina jan ala jan Alisa?
> c) sina jan Alisa ala Alisa?Or just "sina Alisa ala Alisa"of the above, the :jan ala jan" is the least appealing.
> 3) If someone introduces another person by title and then by name,
> how would they do it in Toki Pona? Example: Would "This is my
> daughter Amanda" be:
>> a) ni li jan lili mi Amanta
> b) jan lili ni li jan lili mi Amanta
> c) ni li jan lili mi. nimi ona li Amanta.No; this is too mixed up (Her name isn't Amanta, that her. Her name is"Amanta.")
> d) ni li jan Amanta. ona li jan lili mi.
> e) ni li jan lili Amanta mi
> f) ni li jan Amanta lili mi
> g) ni li jan lili mi, jan AmantaI think a "li" in place of the comma.
> h) some other combination thereof
>> I'm guessing (c) and (d) would be the best, but does some combination
> of the others work?d is safe, e and f are forced but OK, a and b are OK, g works better asmodified. Only c is deadwrong.
> jan Sosuwa
>>