---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-09-09T13:52:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 [MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com) wrote:

> In a message dated 9/8/2006 8:30:21 AM Central Standard Time,
> [clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net) writes:

>>> 
> Note that, except for having to be first, "e" is a preposition (this would
> 
> cut down on the the
> 
> rules a smidge). And I am not sure "e" does have to be first
>> This is good point, but it feels more special than a mere preposition.It does indeed, but \*grammatically\* ... (In Montague grammars --
 some ofRichard's own anyhow --
direect objects are treated as prepositional phrases.)
> 
> What preceeds "la" does not have to be a Nominal; it can be Sentence (or
> 
> did I miss a rule
> 
> somewhere.
> 
>> P2 <PreSentence
> ::= \["taso"\] <Sentence
> "la"
> | \["taso"\] <Nominal
> "la"
> 
> Need a rule of some sort for "kin" (perhaps just a transformation that
> 
> allows it after (almost)
> 
> any word).
> 
>> "kin" is a modifier, so it can follow a noun or a verb. Can it be used
> elsewhere?The official line seems to be that it emphasizes any word that preceeds (cfLojban {ba'e}). so itshould e able to stress a preposition (all of which are verbs, of course) or amere adjective (butthose are all nouns or verbs, too). Given the flexible grammatical categories,maybe everythingis covered.
> 
> ow do we do negative propeositions? is Preposition + "ala" also
> 
> Preposition? ("without", "away
> 
> from" --
 or is "weka" also Preposition? --
 and so on)
> 
>>> Are there negated prepositions? I haven't seen any yet, but I'm still pretty
> new at tp.I don't know. There are certainly concepts that are liable to come upeventually that seem to bethose: "without" in all three senses (so far) of "with," "far from" or "near to"(I can't rememberwhich we actually have covered (actually, neither now that I look)). Probablyothers I just can'tthink of at the moment. tp looks like it has separate words for opposites ratherthan using a"mal-" like form, but then sometimes it uses "ala" in that "opposite of" way.
> 
> would expect your grammatical categories to change quite a bit as more
> 
> users come on the scene:
> 
> many words have a potential to operate in almost every category, even though
> 
> this potential has
> 
> not yet been realized ("ilo" as a preposition, for example, although
> 
> "kepeken" has taken that
> 
> slot).
> 
>> 
> ---
 [MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com) wrote:

> 
>> 
> 
> \[\] = optional element; \* = element may be repeated.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> PHRASE STRUCTURE RULES
> 
> 
> P1 <Sentence
> ::= <Interjection
>> 
> 
> | \[<PreSentence
>\] \[Vocative\] <Subject
> <Predicate
>> 
> 
> P2 <PreSentence
> ::= \["taso"\] <Nominal
> "la"
> 
>> 
> | \["taso"\] <Sentence
> "la"
> 
>> 
> 
> P3 <Vocative
> ::= <Nominal
> "o"
> 
> 
> P4 <Subject
> ::= <Nominal
> "li"
> 
> 
> | "o"
> 
> 
> P5 <Predicate
> ::= <Noun-Phrase
> \[<Prep-Phrase
>\*\]
> 
> 
> | <Verb-Phrase
> \[<Prep-Phrase
>\]
> 
> 
> | <Predicate
> <Predicate-Conjunction
> <Predicate
>> 
> 
> P6 <Nominal
> ::= <Noun-Phrase
>> 
> 
> | <Nominal
> <Nominal-Conjunction
> <Nominal
>> 
> 
> P7 <Noun-Phrase
> ::= <Noun
> \[<Modifier
>\*\]
> 
> 
> | <Noun-Phrase
> "pi" <Noun
> <Modifier
>\*
> 
> 
> P8 <Verb-Phrase
> ::= <Verb
> \["ala" <Verb
>\] \[<Modifier
>\*\]\[<Direct-Object
>\*\]
> 
> 
> (The verb after "ala" is the same as the one before "ala".)
> 
> 
> P9 <Direct-Object
> ::= "e" <Noun-Phrase
>> 
> 
> P10 <Prep-Phrase
> ::= <Preposition
> <Nominal
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
> TRANSFORMATIONAL RULES
> 
> 
> T1: If subject is "mi" or "sina" then delete immediately following "li".
> 
> 
> T2: "o o" ::= "o" (Two "o" are reduced to one.)It appears that "o ona li kama" is a legitmate optative: "May he come" sort ofthing, so "o" alonecan be a presentence or (better) a vocative, i.e. \[<Nominal
>\] "o"