---
author: "AJK"
date: 2008-01-17T10:28:50+00:00
nestinglevel: 2
---
> [_Post by AJK_](/2wZBIW9L/toki-luka-pona-nimi-li-mi#post1)  
> mi en jan ante li jo e pilin pona: mi o kama jo e toki luka pi toki pona :).  
> ?'lukin'? Or do you just mean hand signs?  
> 

toki luka is the idiom for signlanguage  

> [_Post by AJK_](/2wZBIW9L/toki-luka-pona-nimi-li-mi#post1)  
> 'o mi kama jo' "Let's get..."  
> 

'mi o kama jo' is correct grammar. In your example mi would be the  
verb, as the verb always follows li or o.  

> [_Post by AJK_](/2wZBIW9L/toki-luka-pona-nimi-li-mi#post1)  
> mi lon ma Jutupe. mi jo e nimi Tokipona lon ni.  
> A site in tp or you use your tp name there? or what (connection?)  
> 

I got the account tokipona in YouTube.  

> [_Post by AJK_](/2wZBIW9L/toki-luka-pona-nimi-li-mi#post1)  
> mi wile pana e pilin toki ni: mi o pana e nimi tawa kulupu ni la sina  
> o pana e sitelen tawa pi luka nimi.  
> I'm not sure what 'o' does in the antecedent of a conditional ; maybe just  
> "if I give this group the name" that is, without the 'o.' But then 'sina o'  
> (or just 'o', since 'sina' is the default unless you want to be extra polite  
> maybe). ?word hand'? makes sense in the context that is, with the help of  
> the English).  
> 

la is not only conditional, a conditional is the smaller meaning of  
la. The broader meaning is just any adverbal phrase, which you can  
interpret in most cases as a conditional or a phrasal modifier. In  
this case it indicates just the order of action. "I do this and so you  
do that."  

> [_Post by AJK_](/2wZBIW9L/toki-luka-pona-nimi-li-mi#post1)  
> I take it this is for signed tp. I wonder to what extent ordinary ASL signs  
> would work. Probably not very well, since tp words are so much broader than  
> the English correlates -- but the inward point surely works for 'mi'.  
> 

So, the only thing missing is a video.  
  
In fact, I heard Sonja already has quite a big deal of a sign language  
ready, but without any documentation. And a sign language without  
lessons one cannot learn... So please send videos of your signs, for  
that we all will be able to learn them.  

***

\--  
http://iompostiom.net  


***