---
author: "AJK"
date: 2008-01-18 09:13:25 UTC
nestinglevel: 2
---
> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/2wZBIW9L/toki-luka-pona-nimi-li-mi#post2)  
> \----- Original Message ----  
> Sent: Thursday, January 17, 2008 10:24:38 AM  
> Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] \[toki luka pona\] nimi li "mi"  
> 
> > [_Post by John E Clifford_](/2wZBIW9L/toki-luka-pona-nimi-li-mi#post4)  
> > No, see P4 in jan Setepo's grammar: 'o' precedes the verb in imperatives,  
> > but the subject in optatives and (as here, I assume) hortatives.  
> > 
> 
> That would be another exception, alongside of mi and sina without li.  
> Furtheron, in the lessons of jan Pije at the point where he explains  
> o, you can find for example "mi mute o ..." which is just like the  
> same.  
> Actually, this seems anomolous. 'o' functions to 1) mark a vocative, coming  
> after the evocation and 2) to mark directive use, coming before the  
> subject, if any.  
> 

Coming before the verb. As o indicates an imperative, it relates to  
the verb, not to the subject.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/2wZBIW9L/toki-luka-pona-nimi-li-mi#post2)  
> When the two occur together, the double 'o' collapses to  
> one. In the 'mi mute o pali' case we have first person evocation "Hey us",  
> then a (default second person -- the evoked is not the subject after all)  
> imperative "do something." I suppose this resolves to a hortative, but it  
> seems unduly complex. Of course, this applying Lojbanic precision in tp,  
> which is quite inappropriate.  
> 

Never heard about a hortative. And remember that you use here the way  
jan Pije clarifies the subject, not the essence of the construction.  
The essentional way it works is quite easy, but English essentially  
lacks that kind of constructions.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/2wZBIW9L/toki-luka-pona-nimi-li-mi#post2)  
> 
> > [_Post by John E Clifford_](/2wZBIW9L/toki-luka-pona-nimi-li-mi#post4)  
> > I'm not at all sure it works that way, that not being particularly  
> > 
> 
> adverbial  
> 
> > [_Post by John E Clifford_](/2wZBIW9L/toki-luka-pona-nimi-li-mi#post4)  
> > for one thing. Simple sequence or something like 'kama la' seems more  
> > natural for this sort of thing. It is still not clear why the 'o.'  
> > 
> 
> adverbial phrases are phrases(!) which, as an adverb, have influence  
> on the whole phrase it belongs to. it's the only way to explain why  
> 'la' can have time modifiers as well as conditional phrases (or you  
> should tell me an other catch-all way to see it) and it gives you a  
> great deal of liberty in expression.  
> But adverbs have fairly specific functions (time , place, manner, intensity,  
> and so on).  
> 

English influence. This is how the English linguistic people classify  
them, but it's not true about all languages. In Esperanto, we express  
most nuances with all kinds of adverbs, whose meaning even can become  
conditional. (Example: Priparolante tion pliafoje mi ne refarus tion:  
mi toki sin lon ni la mi pali ala e ni)  
In toki pona we need to take the broadest meaning to be able to cover  
it all. Otherwise toki pona would be way too precise.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/2wZBIW9L/toki-luka-pona-nimi-li-mi#post2)  
> Sequence doesn't seem to fit into that, though I suppose the  
> general sense of condition might apply "When I do so-and-so, you do  
> such-and-such," though that doesn't seem to be quite what you intend.  
> 

It does come quite near to the intended meaning this way.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/2wZBIW9L/toki-luka-pona-nimi-li-mi#post2)  
> 'la"  
> seems also to have a variety of meta-functions: commenting on the fact  
> announced or the source of the information or some of the other Lojbanic  
> cmavo functions of sentential scope. (maybe even topic and prenex  
> quantifiers?). Note, incidentally, that sequence is not strictly a  
> modification rather than a correlation.  
> 

You are thinking rather complex. You are right in that 'la' indicates  
a correlation, but in fact it is clear what kind of a correlation it  
is, and that's the modification we defined in your case as a  
conditional and some other things, and in my case as an adverbial  
phrase which as such can take many different roles.  

***

\--  
http://iompostiom.net  


***