---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2009-04-09T16:24:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I reflexively disapprove of new words for which no particular need has beendemonstrated (or even suggested in this case). I suspect (on almost no evidenceat all) that "eye" and "mouth" are covered because they seem more useful inconveying further notions (though, perhaps many of these could have beenhandled by "hole" and "see" and "eat" and "light," and so on --
 but theyweren't). What the vocabulary of a language is is pretty haphazard and in alanguage without a clearly specified procedure for expanding vocabulary (except"Sonja announces that...") additions need careful consideration indeed (keepingin mind that tp's best feature is its very small size). Once the gates areopened too cavalierly, the flood would soon drown the language ("left," "right,"bigger numbers, and a raft of other suggestions come back into play --
 alongwith some suggestions to drop stuff as well). I think the present policy ofnot adding things is generally best --
 and it makes for more interesting mental exercise in using the language.\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_From: jan\_sewe <[serge.g@laposte.net](mailto://serge.g@laposte.net)\
>To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent): Thursday, April 9, 2009 9:34:15 AMSubject: \[tokipona\] Re: nimi oko en nimi uta---
 In tokipona@yahoogroup s.com, "I have many names" <acarroll\_667@ ...
> wrote:

>> Hi! This is my first post, but i've been here awhile. I was wondering. If thewords for body parts are compound nouns (eg ear nena kute), then why do "eye"and "mouth" have their own words?
>I support your suggestion of adding a new word for each body part.\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]