---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2009-04-09T21:05:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Yeah, vocabulary simplification can be carried too far; NSM (natural semanticmetalanguage), the most scientific system, gets by (it claims) with about 70words, philosophical languages (the least scientific) use in the the 20-60 range(cf the alphabet), but both of those have mechanisms for extending thevocabulary. Of course the philosophical ones tend to run into Zipf's wallfairly early on --
 the length of words is no longer proportional to the inverseof the frequen. This is a problem for fixed vocabulary languages as well. Theconclusion to draw is that tp is not a general purpose language, not one whichcan talk about anything in the world at any level of detail, but has some other, phikosophical or therapeutic, goal.\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_From: jan\_sewe <[serge.g@laposte.net](mailto://serge.g@laposte.net)\
>To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent): Thursday, April 9, 2009 1:43:50 PMSubject: \[tokipona\] Re: nimi oko en nimi utaMental exercise? Yes, this is actually what attracted me first. But I reallydon't know if I'm gonna keep exercising my brain until TP has only the word ponaleft.---
 In tokipona@yahoogroup s.com, John E Clifford <kali9putra@ ...
> wrote:

>> I reflexively disapprove of new words for which no particular need has beendemonstrated (or even suggested in this case). I suspect (on almost no evidenceat all) that "eye" and "mouth" are covered because they seem more useful inconveying further notions (though, perhaps many of these could have beenhandled by "hole" and "see" and "eat" and "light," and so on --
 but theyweren't). What the vocabulary of a language is is pretty haphazard and in alanguage without a clearly specified procedure for expanding vocabulary (except"Sonja announces that...") additions need careful consideration indeed (keepingin mind that tp's best feature is its very small size). Once the gates areopened too cavalierly, the flood would soon drown the language ("left," "right,"bigger numbers, and a raft of other suggestions come back into play --
 alongwith some suggestions to drop stuff as well). I think the present policy ofnot adding things is generally best --

> and it makes for more interesting mental exercise in using the language.\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]