---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2009-04-10T13:39:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Well, there isn't a lot of drive to remove more words, though occasionally oneor other may be seen as redundant (ilo and kepeken, for example). With theremaining, one can say quite a bit (witness all the texts around on the archivesand beyond) but not everything --
 and not always easily. That is in keeping witha goal (vaguely Daoist) for the language: simplicity. As for changing oko anduta, I agree. As noted, they have metaphorical uses that would be lost --
 orawkwardly replace --
 in a language without the basic words. The same cannot besaid for many body parts (although maybe for some more).\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_From: jan\_sewe <[serge.g@laposte.net](mailto://serge.g@laposte.net)\
>To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent): Thursday, April 9, 2009 5:47:53 PMSubject: \[tokipona\] Re: nimi oko en nimi uta---
 In tokipona@yahoogroup s.com, John E Clifford <kali9putra@ ...
> wrote:

>> Yeah, vocabulary simplification can be carried too far; NSM (natural semanticmetalanguage) , the most scientific system, gets by (it claims) with about 70words, philosophical languages (the least scientific) use in the the 20-60 range(cf the alphabet), but both of those have mechanisms for extending thevocabulary. Of course the philosophical ones tend to run into Zipf's wallfairly early on --
 the length of words is no longer proportional to the inverseof the frequen. This is a problem for fixed vocabulary languages as well. Theconclusion to draw is that tp is not a general purpose language, not one whichcan talk about anything in the world at any level of detail, but has some other, phikosophical or therapeutic, goal.
>OK for the non-general purposeness of Toki Pona. But even with just thetherapeutic goal in mind, you'd still want to say \*some\* things in it. Now ifpeople still want to remove more words from Toki Pona, then this language isgoing to end up without anymore expressive power at all - except perhaps forsome religious purposes I'm unaware of.I'd be worried about replacing oko and uta by lupa lukin and lupa moku. oko anduta can be used in other contexts where these two replacements would beabsolutely irrelevant. Try to find examples as an exercise! For the same kind ofreason, I don't believe that pata and jan sama were so much equivalent - eventhough the former doesn't exist anymore. And very few of us do reject thenumeric meaning of luka.\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]