---
author: "Sonja Elen Kisa"
date: 2002-07-08T13:12:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
That is a very interesting idea. I have certainly given it some thought in the past. Indeed it would simplify the phonetic system. Imagine a three vowel scheme (e would become i. o would become u). However the changes would be almost too radical: ale li pona. toki pona li pona. mi moku e telo.ali li puna. tuki puna li puna. mi muku i tilu. Of course e would still be an acceptable allophone of i, and o of u, so nobody would actually have to adjust their pronunciation if they wish to keep the old phonemes they learnt. Also, I think it would blur proper nouns beyond recognition.Imagine toki Ipilantu for the Esperanto language and ma Ikatu for Ecuador. Cute! But maybe it's going too far? I'd be curious if other Tokiponers have opinions on the hypothetical conversion to a 3-vowel system... It's a further step in the direction of cute and simplicity. But is it still usable? Rest assured that I won't be making such radical changes in the language without much consultation and thought. Sonja-----
Original Message-----
From: vixcafe \[mailto:[vixcafe@yahoo.ca](mailto://vixcafe@yahoo.ca)\] Sent: July 8, 2002 3:59 AMTo: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSubject](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSubject): \[tokipona\] Re: New lessons coming soon! / Trivocalic---
 In tokipona@y..., "Sonja Elen Kisa" <marraskuu@s...
> wrote:

> There have been a number of minor changes and improvements as Toki 
> Pona is being refined and used in daily chat. Examples include 
> changes to the meaning of "kin", the removal of "en", new words 
> like "kulupu" "mu" and "pata", and expanded versatility of "la".
> Toki, Sonja!  I'm just curious as to what you think of a more "minimilistic" trivocalic system (a/i/u or a/i/o) over a five-vowel system (a/e/i/u/o).  I think a trivocalic language is cute.  There are some languages in the world that do well with just three vowels.  Imagine two less phonemes!It seems to me that the trouble over "ike" and "iki" was due to the allure of a trivocalic system.--
Viktorohttp://[http://www.geocities.com/vixcafeTo](http://www.geocities.com/vixcafeTo) unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:[tokipona-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.comYour](mailto://tokipona-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.comYour) use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.