---
author: "Sonja Elen Kisa"
date: 2002-07-08T14:17:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
After giving the idea more thought, I think a i-o-a system would bemore natural to Tokipo and would represent a more graceful evolutionthan i-u-a.Just look at the natural predominance of o: tOki pOna. jan pOpO lisOna ala. sOweli li jO e telO li mOku e Ona.As stated before, I would never make such a radical change in TokiPona without the support of the majority. For now, it is just anidea. However, it seems to make sense.As with all languages, Toki Pona can evolve. However, I will only letit evolve in a direction that agrees with its goals and inner nature.I would rather call it "improvements" than "evolution". I think avowel simplification may very well improve the language as far as itsdesign guidelines are concerned. However, I will not initiate such achange, unless the majority of Tokiponers are asking for it.There would be a number of radical changes to consider. For example,would "sitelen" become "sisilin" or "sitalin"? I think it could bedangerous to begin changing everything.This is still at the "idea" stage. But I welcome further discussionon this.Sonja---
 In tokipona@y..., "Sonja Elen Kisa" <marraskuu@s...
> wrote:

> That is a very interesting idea. I have certainly given it somethought
> in the past. Indeed it would simplify the phonetic system. Imagine a
> three vowel scheme (e would become i. o would become u).
>> However the changes would be almost too radical:
>> ale li pona. toki pona li pona. mi moku e telo.
> ali li puna. tuki puna li puna. mi muku i tilu.
>> Of course e would still be an acceptable allophone of i, and o ofu, so
> nobody would actually have to adjust their pronunciation if theywish to
> keep the old phonemes they learnt.
>> Also, I think it would blur proper nouns beyond recognition.
> Imagine toki Ipilantu for the Esperanto language and ma Ikatu for
> Ecuador. Cute! But maybe it's going too far?
>> I'd be curious if other Tokiponers have opinions on the hypothetical
> conversion to a 3-vowel system... It's a further step in thedirection
> of cute and simplicity. But is it still usable?
>> Rest assured that I won't be making such radical changes in thelanguage
> without much consultation and thought.
>> Sonja
>> -----
Original Message-----

> From: vixcafe \[mailto:vixcafe@y...\]
> Sent: July 8, 2002 3:59 AM
> To: tokipona@y...
> Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: New lessons coming soon! / Trivocalic
>>> ---
 In tokipona@y..., "Sonja Elen Kisa" <marraskuu@s...
> wrote:

>> 
> There have been a number of minor changes and improvements asToki
> 
> Pona is being refined and used in daily chat. Examples include
> 
> changes to the meaning of "kin", the removal of "en", new words
> 
> like "kulupu" "mu" and "pata", and expanded versatility of "la".
> 
>>> Toki, Sonja! I'm just curious as to what you think of a
> more "minimilistic" trivocalic system (a/i/u or a/i/o) over a five-
> vowel system (a/e/i/u/o). I think a trivocalic language is cute.
> There are some languages in the world that do well with just three
> vowels. Imagine two less phonemes!
>> It seems to me that the trouble over "ike" and "iki" was due to the
> allure of a trivocalic system.
>> --
Viktoro
>> [http://www.geocities.com/vixcafe](http://www.geocities.com/vixcafe)\
>>> To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
> tokipona-unsubscribe@y...
>>>> Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service
> <[http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/](http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/)\
> .