---
author: "Will Koffel"
date: 2002-07-08T14:39:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I agree, keeping the 'o' makes more sense. Eliminating the 'e' throws animmediate red flag when "ale" becomes "ala", so that would have to be sortedout. Maybe "ali"?-WillQuoting Sonja Elen Kisa <[marraskuu@sympatico.ca](mailto://marraskuu@sympatico.ca)\
>:
> After giving the idea more thought, I think a i-o-a system would be
> more natural to Tokipo and would represent a more graceful evolution
> than i-u-a.
>> Just look at the natural predominance of o: tOki pOna. jan pOpO li
> sOna ala. sOweli li jO e telO li mOku e Ona.
>> As stated before, I would never make such a radical change in Toki
> Pona without the support of the majority. For now, it is just an
> idea. However, it seems to make sense.
>> As with all languages, Toki Pona can evolve. However, I will only let
> it evolve in a direction that agrees with its goals and inner nature.
> I would rather call it "improvements" than "evolution". I think a
> vowel simplification may very well improve the language as far as its
> design guidelines are concerned. However, I will not initiate such a
> change, unless the majority of Tokiponers are asking for it.
>> There would be a number of radical changes to consider. For example,
> would "sitelen" become "sisilin" or "sitalin"? I think it could be
> dangerous to begin changing everything.
>> This is still at the "idea" stage. But I welcome further discussion
> on this.
>> Sonja
>> ---
 In tokipona@y..., "Sonja Elen Kisa" <marraskuu@s...
> wrote:

> 
> That is a very interesting idea. I have certainly given it some
> thought
> 
> in the past. Indeed it would simplify the phonetic system. Imagine a
> 
> three vowel scheme (e would become i. o would become u).
> 
>> 
> However the changes would be almost too radical:
> 
>> 
> ale li pona. toki pona li pona. mi moku e telo.
> 
> ali li puna. tuki puna li puna. mi muku i tilu.
> 
>> 
> Of course e would still be an acceptable allophone of i, and o of
> u, so
> 
> nobody would actually have to adjust their pronunciation if they
> wish to
> 
> keep the old phonemes they learnt.
> 
>> 
> Also, I think it would blur proper nouns beyond recognition.
> 
> Imagine toki Ipilantu for the Esperanto language and ma Ikatu for
> 
> Ecuador. Cute! But maybe it's going too far?
> 
>> 
> I'd be curious if other Tokiponers have opinions on the hypothetical
> 
> conversion to a 3-vowel system... It's a further step in the
> direction
> 
> of cute and simplicity. But is it still usable?
> 
>> 
> Rest assured that I won't be making such radical changes in the
> language
> 
> without much consultation and thought.
> 
>> 
> Sonja
> 
>> 
> -----
Original Message-----

> 
> From: vixcafe \[mailto:vixcafe@y...\]
> 
> Sent: July 8, 2002 3:59 AM
> 
> To: tokipona@y...
> 
> Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: New lessons coming soon! / Trivocalic
> 
>> 
>> 
> ---
 In tokipona@y..., "Sonja Elen Kisa" <marraskuu@s...
> wrote:

> 
>> 
> 
> There have been a number of minor changes and improvements as
> Toki
> 
> 
> Pona is being refined and used in daily chat. Examples include
> 
> 
> changes to the meaning of "kin", the removal of "en", new words
> 
> 
> like "kulupu" "mu" and "pata", and expanded versatility of "la".
> 
> 
>> 
>> 
> Toki, Sonja! I'm just curious as to what you think of a
> 
> more "minimilistic" trivocalic system (a/i/u or a/i/o) over a five-
> 
> vowel system (a/e/i/u/o). I think a trivocalic language is cute.
> 
> There are some languages in the world that do well with just three
> 
> vowels. Imagine two less phonemes!
> 
>> 
> It seems to me that the trouble over "ike" and "iki" was due to the
> 
> allure of a trivocalic system.
> 
>> 
> --
Viktoro
> 
>> 
> [http://www.geocities.com/vixcafe](http://www.geocities.com/vixcafe)\
> 
>> 
>> 
> To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
> 
> tokipona-unsubscribe@y...
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service
> 
> <[http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/](http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/)\
> .
>>>> To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
> [tokipona-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com)\
>>>> Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to [http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/](http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/)\
>>>