---
author: "Marcos Cramer"
date: 2005-01-28T16:00:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
toki!
> So, the answer is: don't use lengthy words without necessity.So, to talk about this January, I would say "tenpo mun ni", to talk aboutanything before it "tenpo pini", and anything after it "tenpo kama".We would only rarely refer to the months precisely in Toki Pona, but we stillneed a system to do it. For this we should find a good equilibrium between easymemorisability and shortness.Comparing your system to the number system, I see that yours uses an average of5 syllables, and the number system an average of 6 syllables (check it outyourself).The number system doesn't require you to memorise anything new, whereas in yoursystem one has to memorise twelve special uses of words.Additionally, your system is highly culture-dependent. How is an African gonnafind your system? And even I have never seen snow in November!I conclude that balancing the advantages of your system and the number system,the number system is to be preferred (an average of +20% in length doesn'tmatter much, given that we won't use them that much anyway; the other twoarguments have more weight in this case).To Alexey: Your system uses 6.17 syllables on average, and requires you tomemorise the precise form of the names, so in both aspects it is worse than thenumber system. Additionally, most languages consider the month names as normalnouns rather than proper names. Spanish and Esperanto, for example, both writethem with small letters. So no reason to consider them proper names in TokiPona.mi tawa.jan Makosi.