---
author: "galactonerd"
date: 2007-04-24T19:44:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Well, I was thinking about all this with the person who posted"Factions" in mind. Some of us like the simplicity of the languagebut would like to be able to use it to cover more ground. Whenever Ilearn a language, I try to translate as much stuff as possible intoit, and I have found that there are things I have no idea how totranslate, even after reading all the tp material I can find. Somesay that we should be able to go without saying these things, but aminority of us have different opinions on the matter. There are thosewho are interested in the language and the philosophy, those who areinterested in only the philosophy, and those who are interested inonly the language. What I like about the language is that it's easyto learn. In my opinion, having ways to talk about things, even thosecontrary to the philosophy, will make the language easier to learn,because then people won't stumble over sentences like, "If he admitsto having meant what I thought he meant, what did you think he meant?"as I find myself doing.I think another problem we have is that because of irregularities, weactually have to learn more vocabulary than we think. For example,"jan utala" is "soldier" (i.e. "person who fights") but "jan olin" is"loved one" (i.e. "person who is loved"). There isn't a regular rule;for example, would "jan moli" be "killer" or "dead person?" Not tomention that we have so many place-names to learn. So we have tolearn those as we would have to learn individual words.All this being said, I have found a website that will help us:[http://talideon.com/concultures/wiki/?doc=TestSentencesThis](http://talideon.com/concultures/wiki/?doc=TestSentencesThis) page has a lot of sentences that test the grammaticalconstructions of any invented language.Example: "If I say 'you are a couple of anarchists wearing bidets ashats', how many anarchists are there?"I'm not sure how to say this--
I know "ni" and "la" are there, butwhere to put them? I think we should all try and translate thesesentences to see what we've missed in designing the language.P.S. thanks for the link. :)Josh/jan Sosuwa---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "Rick Miller" <rdmiller3@...
> wrote:

>> On 4/23/07, J. Clement <galactonerd@...
> wrote:

> 
> Hey all,
> 
>> 
> I thought of a list of things we need to figure out how to do intp, aside from big numbers:
> 
> \[...\]
> 
>and
> 
> Also, I can't find how to say "why."
>> Josh,
>> The way to say "why" ("tan seme") is in Lesson 10 of "o kama sona e
> toki pona". [http://bknight0.myweb.uga.edu/toki/lesson/lesson0.html](http://bknight0.myweb.uga.edu/toki/lesson/lesson0.html)\
>> You should learn the language as it is, first. It seems that you're
> missing what Toki Pona is about. Limiting the vocabulary was the main
> goal in designing the language.
>> To say "banana" for example, ask yourself, "How important is it really
> that it's specifically a banana?" If you can point and say "kili",
> fine. If you have to differenciate, say "kili jelo" or "kili linja"
> etc.
>> If you want an international auxiliary language, learn Esperanto.
> Seriously. Although Toki Pona is cute and fun and an interesting
> thinking tool, it's not an IAL. Esperanto really is easy, readily
> available (see Lernu.net for example), and spoken by more people than
> some of the official languages of the E.U.
>> o kama sona e toki Epelanto!
> (Lernu esperanton!)
>