---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2008-05-12 18:22:39 UTC
nestinglevel: 1
---
I am as eager as anyone to see more (lots more) tp text. But I think that translation is not the most productive way to go. community time might be better spent extending the tales that have already been begun on this list and in starting new ones (or writing whole texts alone, of course). Translations -- as anyone who has tried one, especially into tp, know -- is a slow, painful and frustrating occupation with usually very unsatisfactory results. This is especially true of "classics," since they get their status by fusing into a particular culture and, thus, language and so resist translation with extra force. Dao De Jing, for example, come towards the end of an at least three hundred year debate about the nature of Dao and makes little sense without constant reference to Master Tea  
cher Kung and the rest of the -zi brothers (and even then works mainly in the peculiar structure of the Chinese language).Rev. Dodgson relies on three things for his  
humor (humour) : "While shepherds washed their socks by night" parodies of dreadful 19th century English didactic poetry, English puns of truly groanworthy awfulness and some of the best logic chopping since the 12th century. None of either of these types of problems will carry over to tp -- at least no in a form that will have a similar effect. So better to stick tp from the start, although I can imagine trying to do in tp what Laozi does in Chinese or Dodgson in English (or, at least, some particular ones of the things they do).  
\[My apologies for this rant, which has been running -- in various languages -- for thirty-odd years, but I still think the point is correct and needs to be made.\]  
  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Be a better friend, newshound, and  
know-it-all with Yahoo! Mobile. Try it now. http://mobile.yahoo.com/;\_ylt=Ahu06i62sR8HDtDypao8Wcj9tAcJ