---
author: "AJK"
date: 2008-05-16 07:59:11 UTC
nestinglevel: 3
---
Most mainly use short phrases to express simple ideas, and the  
language is practiced in spoken form in many youth conventions of  
Esperanto, as merely a fun language.  

> [_Post by lundesik_](/X7lXcIxk/community-translations#post18)  
> 
> > [_Post by John E Clifford_](/X7lXcIxk/community-translations#post12)  
> > I am as eager as anyone to see more (lots more) tp text. But I  
> > think that translation is not the most productive way to go.  
> > community time might be better spent extending the tales that have  
> > already been begun on this list and in starting new ones (or  
> > writing whole texts alone, of course). Translations -- as anyone  
> > who has tried one, especially into tp, know -- is a slow, painful  
> > and frustrating occupation with usually very unsatisfactory results.  
> > This is especially true of "classics,"  
> > 
> 
> But if you do not translate texts or do not write significant original  
> texts, how make you to really progress in the individual control of  
> the language and to become fluent? Because, for Toki pona, Kotava or  
> other (except Esperanto maybe), with so few speakers, scattered around  
> all the world, I suppose that the occasions to talk are very rare and  
> the direct chat is very limited.  
> 
> > [_Post by John E Clifford_](/X7lXcIxk/community-translations#post12)  
> > Translated texts are necessary (but not sufficient in and of  
> > themselves) for any conlang community.  
> > 
> 
> I agree. But it is a good indicator of vitality and personal fluency  
> of the members of the community.  
> Cordially  
> M. Delpont  
> \------------------------------------  
> Yahoo! Groups Links  
> 

***

\--  
http://iompostiom.net/trovu-la-ringon-perditan  


***