---
author: "lundesik"
date: 2008-05-16 16:13:09 UTC
nestinglevel: 6
---
> [_Post by Rick Miller_](/X7lXcIxk/community-translations.2#post21)  
> Monsieur Delpont,  
> Thank you for the link. Those lexicons prove my point. None of them  
> has even \*half\* of the language's official root-words.  
> So, the only way to learn Kotava is to first learn French.  
> That's not very "international".  
> 

A middle speaker of a natural language does not need more than  
2000-3000 words. The lexicons in English, Dutch or Portuguese count  
6000 terms or more. It is already broad. On the other hand, which  
appears much more interesting to me, they are the bilingual  
dictionaries with languages like Swahili, Lingala, Turkish or Malay.  
That indicates a strong interest for the not-westerner world.  
  
In the same way, there is also an important site, under fast  
development it seems, http://www.kotapedia.org (2,768 articles  
currently) of lexical encyclopaedia and linguistics in Kotava, which  
also includes lexicons into Bambara, Malagasy, Japanese, Tagalog, etc.  
  
Except Esperanto maybe, I do not have the impression that exist many  
auxlangs which are so much focused towards the African or Asian world.  
Because use systematically through English to develop and promote an  
auxlang is a paradox which should normally get away from nobody and  
which is completely contradictory with the idea itself of an IAL.  
  
But this list is devoted to Toki pona and not to the IAL...  
  
Cordially  
  
M. Delpont