---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-12-03T14:42:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Yeah, the obj3ection to the crowding in the wordspace did not consider (verymuch) the problemsacross word boundaries; there are problems enough within words. since I suspectthat most of usare not very good at always giving word initial stress, cross word similaritiesmight become agreater problem in practice.---
 [MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com) wrote:

> Another objection I have is that some Toki Pona words consist entirely of
> other Toki Pona words: a-la, a-li, kala-ma, li-li, ma-ma, ma-ni, ni-mi, o-ko,
> pi-ni, pi-pi, uta-la. The worst offenders here are the words that formrepeats
> of some of the commonest Toki Pona words: lili, mama, pipi. No Toki Pona word
> should consist entirely of other Toki Pona words.
>> I suspect that this objections and the preceding one are aimed at the way
> that Toki Pona words were created. Namely, they were borrowed from other
> languages around the world, then modified to Toki Pona phonology. Theetymology of
> Toki Pona words is charming, but essentially useless information. At best, it
> gives a hook or mnemonic for beginners to remember a word. At worst, it can
> give that same beginner a false feeling of competence when he uses the word
> incorrectly or doesn't understand the word when it is used correctly. This is
> because the etymology touches only part of the semantic range of a word,leaving
> the untouched areas to be learned in spite of the mnenomic.
>> jan Setepo / stevo
>