---
author: "AJK"
date: 2006-11-18T15:51:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
ni li lon. sina toki pona.jan li ken kepeken e nimi 'mute' tawa nanpa suli :)mi tawajan Mimoku2006/11/18, B. J. Knight <[bknight009@yahoo.com](mailto://bknight009@yahoo.com)\
>:There are a number of problems with your suggestion about making big numbers in the way you described:1. "la" is already used in a specific way, namely to make complex adverbs and if-then statements. Using la the way you have described is a major change and potentially could lead to confusion over the sentence's meaning due to la's misuse.2. Your suggestion is based on the assumption that Toki Pona speakers know the decimal system.  The decimal system itself is fairly complex and is incompatible with Toki Pona's goals as a language.3. Lastly and most importantly, Toki Pona is not about finding some clever way to say big numbers. It's about not saying big numbers. Your suggestion--
along with others I have seen that are similar to yours--
would mutilate the language to achieve goals (such as the ability to say big numbers) that Toki Pona was very deliberately designed to prohibit. What good will it be to say big numbers in Toki Pona if Toki Pona'sunderlying principles are destroyed in the process? It won't be any good. If we lose sight of the principles of Toki Pona, the language and its intended goals will already be dead; at that point, whether or not we can say big numbers will be basically be irrelevant.--
 Pije Everyone is raving about the all-new Yahoo! Mail beta. --
 Äˆar Dio tiel amis la mondon, ke Li donis Sian solenaskitan Filon, por ke Ä‰iu, kiu fidas al li, ne pereu, sed havu eternan vivon.-Johano 3:16, La sankta Biblio-