---
author: "AJK"
date: 2007-05-21T10:49:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Yes, but the exact meanings of the toki pona words don't match with the English words they are translated to...jan Mimoku2007/5/21, Helmut Voigt <[akesi_palisa@yahoo.de](mailto://akesi_palisa@yahoo.de)\
>:That's exactly what I thought. A flying fish remains a fish even when it swims in the water, and a bat remains a mammal even when hanging around in a cave. Likewise, a pterodactyl is first of all a reptile and secondly able to fly.So, for me the logical order seems clear: at first the animal class (pipi, kala, akesi, waso, soweli) followed by the specification (things like palisa, waso, suwi, wawa, etc.) jan ElumutuMarcos CRUZ <[tokipona@alinome.net](mailto://tokipona@alinome.net)\
> schrieb: 
> Both are goodsSorry. Both are\*good\*. Esperanto and Spanish influence.
> The same "problem" arises about "pterodactyl":
> "waso akesi" or "akesi waso".Also, there are some fishes that can "fly" a bit. In that case it's clear: "kala waso" (flying fish) or "kala pi waso lili" (fish that is a bit like a winged animal).And some lizards can "fly" while jumping. And some monkeys look like bats and can "fly down" a bit...The combinations are countless. The contexts are countless :-)ali li pona.jan Mako--
 [http://alinome.net/tokipona](http://alinome.net/tokipona) Yahoo! Clever: Stellen Sie Fragen und finden Sie Antworten. Teilen Sie Ihr Wissen. --
 Ĉar Dio tiel amis la mondon, ke Li donis Sian solenaskitan Filon, por ke ĉiu, kiu fidas al li, ne pereu, sed havu eternan vivon.-Johano 3:16, La sankta Biblio-Ĝoju ĉiam, preĝu senĉese, pri ĉio donu dankon.-1 Tesalonikanoj 5:16-18a, La sankta Biblio-