---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-08-14T20:43:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
There are no compound words in tp (at the moment nor ever in intention); thereidioms, phrasesthat are often repeated as a whole and whose meanings are not obvious from theircomponents, e.g."jan pona" for "friend." That being the case, each "compound word" (i.e., idiom)has to begrammatical by definition. Further, restricting the possible verbs (forexample) to the officialverbs misses the point tyhat most tp words can be verbs (as well as nouns andmodifiers and, formany, prepositions and modals and conditions and exclamations and whatever elsethe grammar comesup with). To be sure, for a phrase to be meaningful, each component may beforced into one rolerather than another, but even this is not always clear. I think there may besomethinginteresting here, but the terminology is getting in the way.---
 Matthew Martin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> wrote:

> It seems some compound words are invalid because when not read as
> compound words, they wouldn't form a grammatical phrase.
>> Here is my attempt to chart that observation out. (This also means
> that there are far fewer than 470,000 compound words and they probably
> could be mechanically listed, see end for new count)
>> Two word compounds
>> Can be made from two other words
> n yes (telo nasa)
> mod yes (jelo lili)
> sep no ?
> vt yes
> vi yes (e.g. pilin ike, to feel sad)
> interj no ?
> prep no ?
> conj no ?
> kama yes (by definition)
> cont no ?
> oth ?
>> To test my hypothesis, I'd need to find some toki pona words that are
> officially only nouns, only verbs, and only modifiers, and try to make
> some compound words out of them. e.g.
>> nouns:akesi, ilo, kala, kasi, kili, ko, len, linja, lipu, luka, lupa,
> ma, mani, nanpa, nasin, nena, nimi, noka, oko, palisa, pipi, poki,
> selo, sijelo, sinpin, soweli, suno, supa, tenpo, waso
>> Modifier: jelo, kin, laso, loje, seli, taso
>> nouns two word compounds
> second word
> n mod vt/vi kama
> n ? N ? n/a
> mod Y N ? n/a
> vt/vi ? ? ? n/a
> kama n/a n/a n/a n/a
>> not sure: noun + noun: akesi ilo? kili pipi?
> invalid: noun + prep = e.g. "in group" doesn't mean "clique"
>> modifier two word compounds
> second word
> n mod vt/vi kama
> n ? N N n/a
> mod Y Y N n/a
> vt/vi N N N n/a
> kama n/a n/a n/a n/a
>> not sure: noun + noun: if it was valid, would two nouns make an adjective?
> invalid: modifier + prep = e.g. "ingrown" Prepositions are extremely
> common morphemes in English. Think of all those words with latin
> prepositions embedded in them. Naive English speakers trying to write
> in Toki pona are going to get caught by this a lot.
>> All official verbs can also server as some non-verb part of speach! So
> there isn't really a way to test the following:
> vt/vi two word compounds
> second word
> n mod vt/vi kama
> n N N N? n/a
> mod N N Y? n/a
> vt/vi ? Y? Y Y (?)
> kama n/a n/a Y Y?
>> not sure: Couldn't I make any word pair into a verb by using "li"?
> invalid: verb + prep, e.g lukin "looking forward to", i.e. no English
> style phrasal verbs
>> I won't attempt charts for 3 word compounds. If my observation is
> correct- that compound words must be internally grammatically correct
> phrases, then everything I wrote above could be probably be condensed
> into the phrase structure rules for verb phrases and noun phrases.
>> Does anyone know what doubling a word means? For example, orang orang
> is plural in Indonesian. I don't know what akesi akesi means. lili
> lili makes sense, but I'm not sure what jelo jelo means--
does doubling
> mean intensification or is it just non-sense?
>> If we have 94 nouns, 64 modifiers and 65 verbs and if compond words
> must be grammatically correct phrases, then we have conservatively
> speaking:
> nouns: 94\* 64= 6016
> modifiers: 64\*64 + 94 \* 64=10,112
> verbs: 65\*64 = 4160
> For a grand total of about 20,288 compound words
> And as the toki pona tokiponomancy game shows, maybe half of those
> make sense of any sort or in any context.
>> So toki pona can make about 10,000 compound words before you need to
> resort to longer phrases.
>> Matthew Martin
>>