---
author: "matthewdeanmartin"
date: 2007-08-15T03:36:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
10.0pt;font-family:Arial;color:navy;"
>> There are no compoundwords in tp10.0pt;font-family:Arial;color:navy;"
> 10.0pt;font-family:Arial;color:navy;"
>I disagree.  When two lexemes arestuck together and used in a more narrow sense, it’s a compoundword.  It walks like a duck, it talks like a duck, I’m going to callit a compound word.  10.0pt;font-family:Arial;color:navy;"
> 10.0pt;font-family:Arial;color:navy;"
>If there isn’t a compound, than itwould be incorrect to translate telo nasa into booze, it would only be valid totranslate it into crazy juice,crazy liquid, crazy sauce,crazy water, foolishjuice,foolish liquid, foolish sauce,foolish water, etc for the other 28 canonicalword by word translations.  That sounds silly to me, so I’m inclineto think toki pona has compound words.10.0pt;font-family:Arial;color:navy;"
> 10.0pt;font-family:Arial;color:navy;"
>Now linguistics may be like philosophy—it’sall an argument about the definition of words.  An idiom’s meaningcan’t be inferred from the words.  For example, “kicked thebucket” is idiomatic. On the other hand, drunken-water is suggestive ofbeer in the way that an idiom, “kicked the bucket” is notsuggestive of “dieing”.  It may be a matter of degree, but janpona, to me is suggestive of the word friend in the way that the compound word “sidekick”isn’t (sounds like a pain in the ribs to me!)  So I don’tthink “jan pona” counts as an idiom.  It’s just a vaguecompound word.10.0pt;font-family:Arial;color:navy;"
> 10.0pt;font-family:Arial;color:navy;"
>> There are no compoundwords in tp (at the moment nor ever in intention)12.0pt;"
> 12.0pt;"
>One might intend to make a language of only prepositions—still ifpeople are successfully communicating with it they must be using other commontools of a natural language.  As long as we are talking about toki pona asan activity of human interaction, and not an exercise in abstract grammaticalalgebra, I think there are compound words here weather we want them here ornot.  In fact, I’d go so far as to say that compound words are morein the spirit of the original language design than the alternatives—importingforeign loan words or using verbose phrases in lieu of a word.12.0pt;"
> 12.0pt;"
>> Further, restricting the possible verbs (for example) to theofficial verbs misses the point that most tp words can be verbs12.0pt;"
> 12.0pt;"
>I think there is some consensus on using words for a part of speechthat isn’t listed in the canonical dictionary.  I’m suspectingthat they are “ain’t-words”  They ain’t in thedictionary, but somehow people seem to be using them just fine.  If we can’tuse words from the canonical dictionary outside of their listed parts of speech,then the language is much harder to use, like remembering to use ‘well’as an adverb and ‘good’ as adjective and not vice-versa in English. Or maybe it is a good thing despite the difficulty because it would reduceambiguity.  12.0pt;"
> 10.0pt;font-family:Arial;color:navy;"
>I can’t find a lot of guidancebeyond the canonical examples, so what I think I see in toki pona is astylistic preference for compound words where the constituent words havesomething to do with the final meaning, e.g. telo nasa/weird water.  Asfor what non-canonical compound words mean, short of an official dictionary ofcompound words, I’m predicting compound words will mean exactly whatthose who uses them most intend them to mean. 12.0pt;"
> 12.0pt;"
>jan Matthew pi kulupu mama pi Martin12.0pt;"
> 12.0pt;"
>Translation using compound words:  Matthew of the Martin family12.0pt;"
>Translation sans compound words: Person Matthew of Parental Communityof the Martins12.0pt;"
> From: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\[mailto:[tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\] On BehalfOf John E CliffordSent: Tuesday, August 14, 20074:43 PMTo: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSubject](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSubject): Re: \[tokipona\] Trying togrok compound words12.0pt;"
> 12.0pt;"
>There are no compound words in tp (at the moment nor ever inintention); there idioms, phrasesthat are often repeated as a whole and whose meanings are not obvious fromtheir components, e.g."jan pona" for "friend." That being the case, each"compound word" (i.e., idiom) has to begrammatical by definition. Further, restricting the possible verbs (forexample) to the officialverbs misses the point tyhat most tp words can be verbs (as well as nouns andmodifiers and, formany, prepositions and modals and conditions and exclamations and whatever elsethe grammar comesup with). To be sure, for a phrase to be meaningful, each component may beforced into one rolerather than another, but even this is not always clear. I think there may besomethinginteresting here, but the terminology is getting in the way.---
 Matthew Martin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
>wrote:

> It seems some compound words are invalid because when not read as
> compound words, they wouldn't form a grammatical phrase.