---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2007-09-26T12:20:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
matthewdeanmartin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> schrieb: toki, I’ll sidestep the question of an animal’s inner emotionalstates and propose some sentences with “mu jan” and “a soweli” noka mi li tawa e monsi linja pi soweli tomo la soweli tomo mi toki e a soweli. I stepped on my dog’s tail then he gave a yelp. 
>>> "... soweli mi LI toki e a soweli" li pona tawa mi. Arial;"
>meli li pilin ike mute. ona li kama mu jan. She was afraid, she started to gibber. 
>>> Maybe "kama pana e mu jan" is better. jan Elumutu mi pilin e ni: ni li pona. seme li pona mute? mi tawa, jan Matthew Martin From: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com) \[mailto:[tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\] On Behalf Of [MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.comSent](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.comSent): Sunday, September 16, 2007 9:28 PMTo: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSubject](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSubject): \[tokipona\] a vs. mu Someone recently suggested using "mu jan" for "a" (or "a soweli" for "mu", I don't recall exactly which), but that doesn't really work. "a" expresses emotion, any emotion."mu" is the sound an animal makes, possibly even a person, but there is no emotional implication.  Thus "a soweli" is an emotional utterance of an animal, virtually a contradiction in terms, whereas "mu jan", while it makes sense as what babies say, what's the normal sound a person makes?  I don't think there is one.  Everything is language or emotional expression. Let's keep "a" and "mu" separate. jan Setepo / stevo Heute schon einen Blick in die Zukunft von E-Mails wagen? Versuchen Sie´s mit dem neuen Yahoo! Mail.