---
author: "Matthew Martin"
date: 2007-09-26T17:17:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
ale o toki,
>In the abstract one can talk about "mu jan" or "a soweli" but inparticular contexts like these where it's obvious whether we'retalking about an animal or human, why add a redundant modifier?The original question was if it was 'correct' to utter 'mu jan' or 'a soweli' at all.  The modifier to the interjection says what the sound was like instead of clarifying who said it. (which of course can be argued)soweli Snoopy li pana e mu jan.  Snoopy made humanlike noises.  (The cartoon character snoopy normally is silent)soweli Goofy li pana e a soweli.  Goofy barked. (The Disney animated dog Goofy normally talks)jan Wolverine li pana e a soweli.  Wolverine growled. (The comic book character Wolverine is a human that often engages in vicious fights)As for redundancy, I say again and again that redundancy is a good thing, because no one ever listens to me the first time I tell them that redundancy is a good thing.  Redundancy ensures that people understand what I wrote when they are speed reading or not really paying attention, not that that ever happens on the internet!toki tu en toki mute li pona li sona e jan ante kepeken weka ala pi toki sona.Maybe not my best tp sentence, I was trying to say: "repeating & talking on & on is good, it communicates to people with no loss of information"jan Matthew MartinOn 9/26/07, Jim Henry <[jimhenry1973@gmail.com](mailto://jimhenry1973@gmail.com)\
> wrote:
On 9/16/07, matthewdeanmartin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> wrote:

> noka mi li tawa e monsi linja pi soweli tomo la soweli tomo mi toki e a soweli.
>> I stepped on my dog's tail then he gave a yelp.ma ni la, jan li ken toki taso:.......soweli tomo li pana e a.anu:.......soweli tomo li pana e mu.
> meli li pilin ike mute. ona li kama mu jan.anu:....ona li kama mu.anu:....ona li kama pana e mu.anu:....ona li kama pana e a.In the abstract one can talk about "mu jan" or "a soweli" but inparticular contexts like these where it's obvious whether we'retalking about an animal or human, why add a redundant modifier?--
 Jim Henryhttp://[http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry](http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry)