---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-09-13T14:51:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I agree in general, but some passives presennt real problems in that there is noidentifiable(from context) subject to be used. "jan," for example, implies at least aperson if not a human,and it is not clear that even that is appropriate for the context of the Hymn toLogos. Although,we have just said that nimu is with and the same as jan sewi, so I suppose itdoes work. I thnk,on thw whole, though, that in this case I prefer jan Mila's "kama lon," whihc,while not passive,does avoid the agent problem.---
 [MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com) wrote:

> In a message dated 9/12/2006 1:09:51 PM Central Standard Time,
> [clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net) writes:

>>> 
> How do we do them in a clear way?
> 
> I am in the midst of a translation and come to "All things were made through
> 
> him and without Him
> 
> was not anything made that was made" Uffta! Even if I could unpack the
> 
> negatives a bit, we still
> 
> don't get a subject for an active "pali" (or whatever). Dare we just assume
> 
> "pali" is passive as
> 
> well as active and put "ali" or "ijo ali" in as subject (and probably "ala"
> 
> in another place) and
> 
> hope that context somehow does the trick: "ijo ali li pali (or "lon")kepeken
> 
> ona. ijo li pali
> 
> (lon) la ijo li pali ala kepeken ala ona" or so.
> 
>>>> I don't think we need passives in Toki Pona. Make everything active, pick an
> appropriate subject. Paraphrase your example above as "People made all
> things through him. People made things, and people made no things withoutHim".
>> In general, I think it's better to start with Toki Pona vocabulary and
> grammar and see where that can take you rather than with some other languageand
> then try to force Toki Pona into that mold.
>> Toki Pona also has no relative clauses. This doesn't seem to cause any
> problems. Passives are the same way.
>> stevo / jan Setepo
>