---
author: "jan_sewe"
date: 2009-05-26 18:50:59 UTC
nestinglevel: 6
---
> [_Post by Jim Henry_](/dfSzHfoL/how-to-say-tokiponology#post6)  
> 
> > [_Post by zlaod_](/dfSzHfoL/how-to-say-tokiponology#post5)  
> > What--conceptual thought is bad? Oh well, I mostly work on autopilot anyway.  
> > 
> 
> Several of the people on this list use the word "concept"  
> in ways that seem odd to me -- not sure if they're  
> not native speakers of English, or speakers of  
> dialects other than mine. I would tend to use  
> the word "abstraction" in most of the contexts  
> where e.g. jan\_sewe was using "concept" in  
> recent posts. To me "conceptual thought"  
> is a pleonasm, like "archaic old things" or  
> "mnemonic memory" or "pulmonary lungs".  
> "conceptual" is the adjective form of "concept"  
> which is a fancy word for "a thought", not necessarily  
> an abstract thought, which is the kind of thought  
> that I think jan\_sewe and some other toki pona  
> speakers think that toki pona discourages -- not  
> sure if I agree with them there, either. It seems  
> to me that e.g. "soweli" is more of an an abstraction  
> than concrete terms in other languages like "dog",  
> "kinkajou", "marmoset" etc.; "pipi" more abstract  
> than "bee", "junebug", "firefly", etc. (On the other  
> hand "soweli" and "pipi" are less exact and technical  
> terms than their closest equivalents in English,  
> "mammal" and "insect" -- the latter have connections  
> to scientific ideas about evolution and taxonomy  
> that aren't connoted by the toki pona terms.)  
> \---  
> Jim Henry  
> http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/  
> 

I don't know actually if my idea of a concept is the same as yours. Each Toki Pona word is a concept in itself, but it's often difficult to understand what a Toki Poka speaker means whenever he uses one of them, or a combination of them. Whenever you say soweli - or soweli pona - in general you mean 'cat', 'dog', 'horse', but rarely 'mammal'!  
  
Maybe Sonja has conceptualised the notion of mammal by means of soweli, but Toki Pona speakers aren't being conceptual whenever they use it! And you can't just say 'sona pi toki pona' and hope your reader will understand 'tokiponology', a word that doesn't even exist in English...  
  
But sometimes I do wonder if Sonja really invented Toki Pona alone: it looks like she might have benefited from conversations with a few guys like you... :)