---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-05-13T12:43:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Marcos CRUZ <[tokipona@alinome.net](mailto://tokipona@alinome.net)\
> wrote:

> The original of this one is from the XVIth century. It's a humor
> "poem song".
>> \[By the way, is it right "XVIth century" or "XVI century" or both?\]Both are used plus one with a degree sign in the upper right.
> "kalama musi pi ni: jan li tawa Amelika seli. jan Epanja li kalama
> musi e ni."
>> jan li tawa ma tomo Lonta tan kili jelo.
> jan li tawa ma tomo Alakonale tan kili loje.
> jan li tawa ma Amelika seli tan mani.
> jan li tawa nena ma tan meli pi nena ma.Ahah, pears and apples; I went to lemons and pomegranates --
 not that itmatters here."ma nena," "the mountains"
> mije mi li tawa Amelika seli
> li wile mute e mani sina.
> ona li kama sin
> li jo e toki taso, e mani ala.
>> mije mi li tawa Amelika seli
> li pana tawa mi e ilo moku.
> ni li jo e nimi ni:
> "sina wile moku la, sina pali."Again, not that it matters, but "ilo moku" doesn't really suggest a jacknife (Iget that from theEsperanto, though, so it may be closer to the Spanish, where I just don't knowthe word). "ilo tulili" might be more exact tp.Masybe "toki" rather than "nimi," though either works fairly well. I don't knowhow to indicatethat the saying is written on the knife (literally or figuratively?) "sitelen nili lon ona"?
> mije ali li tawa Amelika seli
> li wile kama jo e mani.
> ona li wile pali la,
> Amelika seli li lon.
>> The original Spanish and two Esperanto translations (literal and
> poetic) are here:
>> [http://alinome.net/tokipona/tra_egaleano.eo.html](http://alinome.net/tokipona/tra_egaleano.eo.html)\
>> jan Mako
>>>>>