---
author: "Marcos CRUZ"
date: 2007-05-13T13:45:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\
> "ma nena," "the mountains"Though the official glossary says "nena" itself can mean"mountain(s)", I used the modifier "ma" to make the meaning moreexact. But you are right, "ma nena", mountain land/region is betterfor the original "sierra", thanks. I'll change it.
> 
> li pana tawa mi e ilo moku.
> Again, not that it matters, but "ilo moku" doesn't really suggest ajacknife (I get that from the
> Esperanto, though, so it may be closer to the Spanish, where I justdon't know the word). "ilo tu
> lili" might be more exact tp.I had doubts, how to translate that. The original "navaja" means"clasp knife" or "penknife". I don't know if the English translationis good. It's a knife you can fold, so you can hide the knife itselfinto the handle. The Esperanto usual form is "posxtranchilo" ("pocketknife"). Such a knife was popular those days and it was used foreverything.I used "ilo moku" because I couldn't find a better alternative. "ilotu lili" is interesting. It moves the ambiguity into another place(scissors?). Perhaps it's better "ilo du lili", because it always canbe used to work, but "ilo moku" can not (only knifes among them). Ithink I'll use just "ilo tu".
> Masybe "toki" rather than "nimi," though either works fairly well.Many times I doubt beetwen those two. I assume "nimi" aims the words,and "toki" aims the message, the content. In this context, I thinkboth are good and clear enough. By the way, I think the expressión"kulupu nimi" is unnecessary most of the times, because "nimi" itselfcan mean "words". I assume "kulupu nimi" means a group of words thatare rilated or organized, like a sentence, but many times "nimi" isenough.
> I don't know how to indicate
> that the saying is written on the knife
> (literally or figuratively?) "sitelen ni li lon ona"?I had the same doubt and finally I left it to the context, because aknife can "have words" only if they are written on it.jan Mako--
[http://alinome.net/tokipona](http://alinome.net/tokipona)