---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-05-13T14:35:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Marcos CRUZ <[tokipona@alinome.net](mailto://tokipona@alinome.net)\
> wrote:

> 
> "ma nena," "the mountains"
>> Though the official glossary says "nena" itself can mean
> "mountain(s)", I used the modifier "ma" to make the meaning more
> exact. But you are right, "ma nena", mountain land/region is better
> for the original "sierra", thanks. I'll change it.
>> 
> 
> li pana tawa mi e ilo moku.
>> 
> Again, not that it matters, but "ilo moku" doesn't really suggest a
> jacknife (I get that from the
> 
> Esperanto, though, so it may be closer to the Spanish, where I just
> don't know the word). "ilo tu
> 
> lili" might be more exact tp.
>> I had doubts, how to translate that. The original "navaja" means
> "clasp knife" or "penknife". I don't know if the English translation
> is good. It's a knife you can fold, so you can hide the knife itself
> into the handle. The Esperanto usual form is "posxtranchilo" ("pocket
> knife"). Such a knife was popular those days and it was used for
> everything.
>Yes; Americans tend to say "jacknife" but it is the same object.
> I used "ilo moku" because I couldn't find a better alternative. "ilo
> tu lili" is interesting. It moves the ambiguity into another place
> (scissors?). Perhaps it's better "ilo du lili", because it always can
> be used to work, but "ilo moku" can not (only knifes among them). I
> think I'll use just "ilo tu".The added modifier tends to disambiguate: "ilo tu" alone could mean just "twotools" but "ilo tulili," while it could mean that, is less likely to because numbers tend to comelast. "Scissor"is fun: "ilo tu tu" is multiply ambiguous (four tools, two knives, scissors)"ilotu pi linja tu"?"cutter with two edges").
> 
> Masybe "toki" rather than "nimi," though either works fairly well.
>> Many times I doubt beetwen those two. I assume "nimi" aims the words,
> and "toki" aims the message, the content. In this context, I think
> both are good and clear enough. By the way, I think the expressión
> "kulupu nimi" is unnecessary most of the times, because "nimi" itself
> can mean "words". I assume "kulupu nimi" means a group of words that
> are rilated or organized, like a sentence, but many times "nimi" is
> enough.And (recently established) "nimi" is for direct quotes.
> 
> I don't know how to indicate
> 
> that the saying is written on the knife
> 
> (literally or figuratively?) "sitelen ni li lon ona"?
>> I had the same doubt and finally I left it to the context, because a
> knife can "have words" only if they are written on it.touche'