---
author: "matthewdeanmartin"
date: 2007-09-15T17:31:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
toki,Oops, I’m sorry. I read "compound verb preceded by kama" too fast and gotit backwards. Never mind what I just wrote.I should have been writing kama sona/kama jo/kama lape all along.These are the only official words I can find that have kama as a modifier,(i.e. following a word), and it means something like coming/upcoming/futuretenpo kamatenpo suno kamaBy analogy, I guess verb + kama would be equivalent to the future tense?mi toki \*tempo kama\* e toki pona pona. I will speak good toki pona someday.I know people usually write it as:\*tempo kama la\* mi toki e toki pona pona. I will speak good toki ponasomeday.mi tawa,jan Matthew Martin\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_From: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com) \[mailto:[tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\] On BehalfOf John E CliffordSent: Saturday, September 15, 2007 1:00 PMTo: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSubject](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSubject): Re: \[tokipona\] question on verb "kama"---
 matthewdeanmartin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> wrote:

> toki!
>>>> Kama looks like it was intended to be a special verb, not sure what the
> right linguistic term is, seems to mean "acquiring such a state"
>> sona- know, sona kama - learn (both official)
>> jo - have, jo kama - receive (both official)
>> lape - sleep, lape kama - fall asleep (not in the official dictionary)
>Can you give citations for these. I can find only "kama sona", "kama jo,"and "kama lape"in these meanings (or at all for that matter). This pattern is alsoproductive, making newexpressions with the same general meaning: "A li kama B" for A vomes to be(a) C, "A li C" becomestrue. This also accords with Chapter 6 in the Lessons (which has "kama jo"for "get").
>> But this doesn't follow the pattern
>> olin --
 love
>> kama olin - fall in love, ref. [http://www.tokipona.org/pilin.html](http://www.tokipona.org/pilin.html)\
>>>> Is that just a mistake, or am I missing grammatical point here?
>> (?) ona mije li kama olin e ona meli. He came to love her.
>> (?) ona mije li olin kama e ona meli. He fell in love with her.
>I am not sure what the second means: He causally loves her?
>> mi tawa,
>>>> jan Matthew Martin
>>>> (anyone notice how in Outlook and MS-Word toki pona letters keep getting
> capitalized, \*sigh\*)Yeah, first word and first after a period at least- and i in isolation.There is a switch for thatsomewhere, but I never remember to go looking for it and reset. And I takeadvantage of itsometimes.
>>>>>>>