---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-09-15T18:59:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 matthewdeanmartin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> wrote:

> toki,
>> Oops, I’m sorry. I read "compound verb preceded by kama" too fast and got
> it backwards. Never mind what I just wrote.
>> I should have been writing kama sona/kama jo/kama lape all along.
>> These are the only official words I can find that have kama as a modifier,
> (i.e. following a word), and it means something like coming/upcoming/future
>> tenpo kama
> tenpo suno kama
>> By analogy, I guess verb + kama would be equivalent to the future tense?
>> mi toki \*tempo kama\* e toki pona pona. I will speak good toki pona someday.I suppose it would be "toki pi tenpo kama" since the "kama" modifies "tenpo"then the wholemodifies "toki." It is hard to see what "toki tenpo" might mean (or thatmodified by "kama").This feels bad to me, though it appears to be legal. I prefer the followingform generally fortemporal positioning among other modal-like notions.
> I know people usually write it as:
>> \*tempo kama la\* mi toki e toki pona pona. I will speak good toki pona
> someday.That is "talk about good toki pona." "To speak tp" is usually "toki kepekentoki pona." I knowyou can find it otherwise --
 at least two ways --
 in "official" stuff, but thishas been hammeredout in usage, if not completely agreed to. At least, it is always right andunambiguous, thoughother things may be right as well, although ambiguous.
> mi tawa,
>> jan Matthew Martin
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> From: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com) \[mailto:[tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\] On Behalf
> Of John E Clifford
> Sent: Saturday, September 15, 2007 1:00 PM
> To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\
> Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] question on verb "kama"
>>> ---
 matthewdeanmartin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> wrote:

>> 
> toki!
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> Kama looks like it was intended to be a special verb, not sure what the
> 
> right linguistic term is, seems to mean "acquiring such a state"
> 
>> 
> sona- know, sona kama - learn (both official)
> 
>> 
> jo - have, jo kama - receive (both official)
> 
>> 
> lape - sleep, lape kama - fall asleep (not in the official dictionary)
> 
>> Can you give citations for these. I can find only "kama sona", "kama jo,"
> and "kama lape"
> in these meanings (or at all for that matter). This pattern is also
> productive, making new
> expressions with the same general meaning: "A li kama B" for A vomes to be
> (a) C, "A li C" becomes
> true. This also accords with Chapter 6 in the Lessons (which has "kama jo"
> for "get").
> 
>> 
> But this doesn't follow the pattern
> 
>> 
> olin --
 love
> 
>> 
> kama olin - fall in love, ref. [http://www.tokipona.org/pilin.html](http://www.tokipona.org/pilin.html)\
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> Is that just a mistake, or am I missing grammatical point here?
> 
>> 
> (?) ona mije li kama olin e ona meli. He came to love her.
> 
>> 
> (?) ona mije li olin kama e ona meli. He fell in love with her.
> 
>>> I am not sure what the second means: He causally loves her?
> 
>> 
> mi tawa,
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> jan Matthew Martin
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> (anyone notice how in Outlook and MS-Word toki pona letters keep getting
> 
> capitalized, \*sigh\*)
> Yeah, first word and first after a period at least- and i in isolation.
> There is a switch for that
> somewhere, but I never remember to go looking for it and reset. And I take
> advantage of it
> sometimes.
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>>>>