---
author: "jean-luc DESTREE"
date: 2008-11-10T19:53:58+00:00
nestinglevel: 9
---
jan ali o toki !  
  
mi wile pona e ni : ale li pona a !  
  
pilin pona tawa jan Mimoku tan ni : li toki e lon pi pali pina ona  
  
0 tawa pona  
  
  
  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.comFrom: \*\*\*@gmail.comDate: Mon, 10 Nov 2008 17:39:39 +0100Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] explain trouble clearly  
  
  
  
Dear Sven,I'm sorry for this inconvenience. The settings are: "First messagemoderated, then not any more" but Yahoo makes it harder than necesary... Nowyour messages are not moderated any more before posted. I'm terribly sorryit took me so long to switch the moderation off for you :'(. (It's a bithidden in the member settings, so it's a les trivial task than I would likeit.)And yes, I'm responsible for the mere fact that the stuff is moderated thisway. Upon request of members because of spam (which I still have to pick outquite a lot...) I became moderator and set up this policy. I even got ahelping moderator (Marek//jan Male) in case I'm not there, but the both ofus don't have loads of time on hands.So, yet another time sorry, and I hope this solves it for now.jan Mimoku2008/11/10 Sven Walper <\*\*\*@penzeng.de>> > Sorry, but I don't understand anything about the trouble between> you and "jan lawa pi TP"> > Could you explain it clearly on this forum, or somebody else could> do it ?>> Sure, I can explain it:>> I have no personal quarrel with any of you. I'm just unhappy with> this platform (the Toki Pona Yahoo Group) because it seems cumbersome> and inconvenient to me.>> One big inconvenience is that any post has to be approved by an> administrator before it becomes visible to the group. This seems> inconvenience to me because I frequently write in several other> internet forums, and none of them is run in such a restrictive mode.> Usually, in any forum, posts are immediately published when sent. But> in this group, once a harmless little post of me was automatically> rejected because noone approved it within 7 days. I suppose this> happend by an oversight, but it was pretty annoying to me.>> And there are further inconveniences here, too: You people are nice,> but all in all this Yahoo Group user interface seems awkward to me. I> wish we'd all relocate to a modern style forum like "Simple Machines> Forum" or something similar.>>> ------------------------------------>> Yahoo! Groups Links>>>>-- http://espe.ranto.nlhttp://lost.eu/78c6e\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]  
  
  
  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Email envoyé avec Windows Live Hotmail. Dites adieux aux spam et virus, passez à Hotmail ! C'est gratuit !  
http://www.windowslive.fr/hotmail/default.asp  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]