---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2008-07-17T14:47:01+00:00
nestinglevel: 4
---
Maybe, toki suli is to mean "speak loudly"?  
jan Elumutu  
  
\--- Rick Miller <\*\*\*@gmail.com> schrieb am Mi, 16.7.2008:  
  
Von: Rick Miller <\*\*\*@gmail.com>  
Betreff: Re: AW: \[tokipona\] toki - mi sin  
An: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Datum: Mittwoch, 16. Juli 2008, 23:21  

> [_Post by Sam Chapman_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post5)  
> mi lukin e lupa. mi lukin e jan lili mute, jan li musi li toki suli.  
> 

"mi lukin e lupa."  
"I see a hole."  
If you're looking \*through\* a door or window, I'm wondering why you're  
bothering to mention it. Is it important? Could you just say what  
you see without mentioning the opening and still get basically the  
same story?  
  
The second thing with a comma in the middle should be two separate  
sentences. The word "pona" also means \*simple\*. Subordinate clauses  
and sentences containing more than one idea are "ike".  
  
I'm assuming you were trying to say "I see some small people and they  
are playing and (big-talking? )". I don't know what "toki suli" means  
without more context. It could be that they're talking about  
important things or talking in a pretentious manner... dunno. Anyway,  
divide it up like so:  
  
"mi lukin e jan lili mute. ni li musi li toki suli."  
  
The word "jan" isn't a pronoun so you would use "ni".  
  
Now that I think about it, I'm starting to wonder why you even have to  
mention the fact that you \*see\* these people. Why not just say what  
they did? It should be self-evident that you either saw it or heard  
about it somehow, and those details probably won't matter to your  
audience.  

> [_Post by Sam Chapman_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post5)  
> ale li pona, mi tawa  
> 

As I learned it, "ale" is depreciated because it sounds too close to  
"ala". "ali" is the preferred word. (I could be wrong.)  
  
I'm still curious what you were trying to say with "toki suli".  
  
jan Wiko  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Gesendet von Yahoo! Mail.  
Dem pfiffigeren Posteingang.  
http://de.overview.mail.yahoo.com