---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2008-07-16T11:30:16+00:00
nestinglevel: 1
---
jan San o, toki!  
   
Google provides you to the toki pona link. Fortunately, there is no need of a list of conventions for compound words. The rules are simple: the 1st word is always the main one, and whichever words follow (except la, e, li, pi, en and tan) relate to said first word. Example: tomo sin suli mi = house (new, big, mine), but tomo sin suli pi mi mute = house (new, big, ours). Without the pi, "mute" (plural sign) would be related with tomo (my many new big houses). Another example: jan lili mute = many children, jan pi lili mute = a baby (the pi lets "mute" modify lili and not jan). There should not be more than one pi phrase following a noun, so please avoid phrases like jan lili pi nanpa wan pi jan lawa pi ma Inli (HRH Prince Charles).  
As you are a language teacher already, it will only take a few days or weeks until you master toki pona.  
o kama sona pona!  
jan Elumutu tan ma Tosi  
  
  
\--- sam\_acw <\*\*\*@yahoo.co.uk> schrieb am Di, 15.7.2008:  
  
Von: sam\_acw <\*\*\*@yahoo.co.uk>  
Betreff: \[tokipona\] toki - mi sin  
An: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Datum: Dienstag, 15. Juli 2008, 19:57  
  
  
  
  
  
  
I just came across this language today whilst doing some research for  
work. I thought it'd be interesting to learn and would give me an  
insight and make my brain work more. I'm English but live and work in  
Poland teaching English.  
I'm no great linguist, I speak English, used to speak good French and  
probably have intermediate Polish. My background is in International  
relations though which makes me find this language rather fascinating.  
I like the idea of being able to translate something such as  
"Universal Human Rights" to something more poetic! Going through the  
dictionary I found on the web it could be along the lines of 'nasin  
pona jan'  
I also like the idea of not being able to perescribe rules, simply  
guidelines.  
One question - is there a list of conventions for compound nouns about?  
Now for a little bit about me (please correct;-)  
  
mi kama sona e toki pona e toki Posuka- mi wile toki pona ;-). mi lon  
ma Posuka, mi kama tan ma Inli mi jo e meli olin.  
  
Sorry for any hideous inaccuracies, I'm not a fan of being systematic  
\- I prefer just giving it a go.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Gesendet von Yahoo! Mail.  
Dem pfiffigeren Posteingang.  
http://de.overview.mail.yahoo.com