---
author: "galactonerd"
date: 2008-07-16T22:27:23+00:00
nestinglevel: 4
---
> [_Post by Rick Miller_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post6)  
> 
> > [_Post by Sam Chapman_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post5)  
> > mi lukin e lupa. mi lukin e jan lili mute, jan li musi li toki suli.  
> > 
> 
> "mi lukin e lupa."  
> "I see a hole."  
> If you're looking \*through\* a door or window, I'm wondering why you're  
> bothering to mention it. Is it important? Could you just say what  
> you see without mentioning the opening and still get basically the  
> same story?  
> 

Or what about "mi lukin lon lupa?"  

> [_Post by Rick Miller_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post6)  
> "mi lukin e jan lili mute. ni li musi li toki suli."  
> The word "jan" isn't a pronoun so you would use "ni".  
> 

I thought it was supposed to be "ona?" "mi lukin e jan lili mute.  
ona li musi li toki suli."  

> [_Post by Rick Miller_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post6)  
> Now that I think about it, I'm starting to wonder why you even have to  
> mention the fact that you \*see\* these people. Why not just say what  
> they did? It should be self-evident that you either saw it or heard  
> about it somehow, and those details probably won't matter to your  
> audience.  
> 

Sometimes it's important for the listener to know whether you saw  
something or heard about it from someone else; in fact, I think this  
is why some languages use evidential markers.  

> [_Post by Rick Miller_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post6)  
> 
> > [_Post by Sam Chapman_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post5)  
> > ale li pona, mi tawa  
> > 
> 
> As I learned it, "ale" is depreciated because it sounds too close to  
> "ala". "ali" is the preferred word. (I could be wrong.)  
> 

I've seen both used; in fact, I've seen "ale" more than "ali."  

> [_Post by Rick Miller_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post6)  
> I'm still curious what you were trying to say with "toki suli".  
> 

I understood it to mean "to speak loudly."  
  
jan Sosuwa