---
author: "Sam Chapman"
date: 2008-07-17 05:18:50 UTC
nestinglevel: 5
---
Thanks for the advice and correction  
So I had:  
  
  
mi lukin e lupa. mi lukin e jan lili mute, jan li musi li toki suli.  
  
1st sentence was to be I'm looking through a window. I think mi lukin lon lupa is clearer. I was originally going to put "tomo oko" for window. As I'm learning Polish Oko is eye in this language and okno window so there is a link between them. I doubted it would be clear to anyone else though!  
The second sentence seems ok because I copied it, so onto the third. As you said, I need to use ona as the pronoun. I had intended it to mean "are talking loudly". Maybe if it was "ona li kamala li toki suli" it would be clearer.  
The whole story, as was said earlier could be minimised to  
  
One li toki li musi  
  
but that isn't a lot of practice for me so now the full, revised version  
  
mi lukin lon lupa. mi lukin e jan lili muti. ona li musi. ona li kamala li toki suli.  
  
as far as ali/ale the dictionary I used gave both as correct.  
Thanks  
Sam  
  
\--- On Wed, 16/7/08, galactonerd <\*\*\*@yahoo.com> wrote:  
From: galactonerd <\*\*\*@yahoo.com>  
Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] toki - mi sin  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Date: Wednesday, 16 July, 2008, 11:27 PM  

> [_Post by Rick Miller_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post6)  
> 
> > [_Post by Sam Chapman_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post5)  
> > mi lukin e lupa. mi lukin e jan lili mute, jan li musi li toki  
> > 
> 
> 

suli.  

> [_Post by Rick Miller_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post6)  
> "mi lukin e lupa."  
> "I see a hole."  
> If you're looking \*through\* a door or window, I'm wondering why  
> 

you're  

> [_Post by Rick Miller_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post6)  
> bothering to mention it. Is it important? Could you just say what  
> you see without mentioning the opening and still get basically the  
> same story?  
> 

Or what about "mi lukin lon lupa?"  

> [_Post by Rick Miller_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post6)  
> "mi lukin e jan lili mute. ni li musi li toki suli."  
> The word "jan" isn't a pronoun so you would use "ni".  
> 

I thought it was supposed to be "ona?" "mi lukin e jan lili mute.  
  
ona li musi li toki suli."  

> [_Post by Rick Miller_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post6)  
> Now that I think about it, I'm starting to wonder why you even have  
> 

to  

> [_Post by Rick Miller_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post6)  
> mention the fact that you \*see\* these people. Why not just say what  
> they did? It should be self-evident that you either saw it or heard  
> about it somehow, and those details probably won't matter to your  
> audience.  
> 

Sometimes it's important for the listener to know whether you saw  
  
something or heard about it from someone else; in fact, I think this  
  
is why some languages use evidential markers.  

> [_Post by Rick Miller_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post6)  
> 
> > [_Post by Sam Chapman_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post5)  
> > ale li pona, mi tawa  
> > 
> 
> As I learned it, "ale" is depreciated because it sounds too close to  
> "ala". "ali" is the preferred word. (I could be wrong.)  
> 

I've seen both used; in fact, I've seen "ale" more than "ali."  

> [_Post by Rick Miller_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post6)  
> I'm still curious what you were trying to say with "toki suli".  
> 

I understood it to mean "to speak loudly."  
  
  
  
jan Sosuwa  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Not happy with your email address?.  
Get the one you really want - millions of new email addresses available now at Yahoo! http://uk.docs.yahoo.com/ymail/new.html