---
author: "Jim Henry"
date: 2008-07-18T02:49:12+00:00
nestinglevel: 6
---
> [_Post by Sam Chapman_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post10)  
> 1st sentence was to be I'm looking through a window. I think mi lukin lon  
> lupa is clearer. I was originally going to put "tomo oko" for window. As I'm  
> learning Polish Oko is eye in this language and okno window so there is a  
> link between them. I doubted it would be clear to anyone else though!  
> 

toki "tomo oko" li pona tawa mi. mi kepeken e nimi sama lon  
toki sin mi:  
  
In my personal conlang gjâ-zym-byn, I use a very similar compound word for  
"window": vě'ty-rĭm, "doorway-vision". (Morpheme order in compounds  
is head-modifier, same as in TP.)  

> [_Post by Sam Chapman_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post10)  
> The second sentence seems ok because I copied it, so onto the third. As you  
> said, I need to use ona as the pronoun. I had intended it to mean "are  
> talking loudly". Maybe if it was "ona li kamala li toki suli" it would be  
> clearer.  
> 

"kalama"  
  
but yes, that sounds clearer.  

> [_Post by Sam Chapman_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post10)  
> The whole story, as was said earlier could be minimised to  
> One li toki li musi  
> 

ona  

> [_Post by Sam Chapman_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post10)  
> but that isn't a lot of practice for me so now the full, revised version  
> mi lukin lon lupa. mi lukin e jan lili muti. ona li musi. ona li kamala li toki suli.  
> 

mute  
  
Otherwise good.  

> [_Post by Sam Chapman_](/46p3RqX2/toki-mi-sin#post10)  
> as far as ali/ale the dictionary I used gave both as correct.  
> 

Yes, both are correct. In a corpus analysis I did about a year ago  
(mostly of email messages copied from this mailing list), they were  
almost equally frequent:  
  
0.3863% 40 ali  
0.3670% 38 ale  
  
(The corpus was 10354 words; "ali" occurred 40 times,  
and "ale" 38 times. I wonder if I would get different results  
if I analyzed a corpus consisting entirely of messages from  
the last year or two, instead of stuff spread out over five years  
or so.)  

***

\--  
Jim Henry  
http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/conlang/fluency-survey.html  
Conlang fluency survey -- there's still time to participate before  
I analyze the results and write the article  


***