---
author: "Marcos CRUZ"
date: 2007-05-13T22:43:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\
> 
> ni li sitelen toki lili sin tan jan Peke \[Bécquer\]:
> 
>> 
> tenpo ni la, ma en sewi li pona tawa mi.
> 
> tenpo ni la, suno li lon insa mi.
> 
> tenpo ni la, mi lukin e meli. ona li lukin e mi.
> 
> tenpo ni la, jan sewi li lon tawa mi!
> Mild dissonance: "X li pona
> tawa mi" usually means "I like X"
> (probably underlyingly "X \*seems\* good to me") but here the
> "good to" (or "good for") is more "literal."The meaning of the original metaphor ("earth and sky smile to me"),as I understand them in Spanish (and I think it is the same in otherlanguages) is "everything that happens to me is good", or simpler: "Iam fortunate".
> I don't know how to make the distinction, since it
> is not entirely about my feeling here:
> I may like them, but they are really doing good things
> to/for me.As you say, I took the simple literal "pona" meaning, "earth and skyare good to me", "they make something good to me". The usual meaning"I like X" is an idiom indeed.Perhaps we could be more precise, but the text would be longer.
> The believe piece is hard; literally I sup\[pose it has to be
> "mi pilin e ni: jan sewi li lon."That would be the literal translation, yes.
> Of course you intend the "tawa mi" to work
> ;like the usual "pona tawa mi"I felt it reflects the original, but using other structure: Theoriginal "I believe in god" becomes "God exists to/for me". At thesame time, it is parallel to the first verse. I liked that solution.Also, it is very close to the TP expression "ali li pona".
> but, outside the idiom, it
> may work more directly, modifyin just "lon"
> and giving God's purpose or goal or proprietor."jan sewi li lon mi" you mean? I don't understand.jan Mako--
[http://alinome.net/tokipona](http://alinome.net/tokipona)