---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-05-14T00:54:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Marcos CRUZ <[tokipona@alinome.net](mailto://tokipona@alinome.net)\
> wrote:

> 
> 
> ni li sitelen toki lili sin tan jan Peke \[Bécquer\]:
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> tenpo ni la, ma en sewi li pona tawa mi.
> 
> 
> tenpo ni la, suno li lon insa mi.
> 
> 
> tenpo ni la, mi lukin e meli. ona li lukin e mi.
> 
> 
> tenpo ni la, jan sewi li lon tawa mi!
>> 
> Mild dissonance: "X li pona
> 
> tawa mi" usually means "I like X"
> 
> (probably underlyingly "X \*seems\* good to me") but here the
> 
> "good to" (or "good for") is more "literal."
>> The meaning of the original metaphor ("earth and sky smile to me"),
> as I understand them in Spanish (and I think it is the same in other
> languages) is "everything that happens to me is good", or simpler: "I
> am fortunate".Yes, although at some point it probably actually involved a belief in agencyfrom heaven andearth. And in poetry we might want to keep that pattern (but how to even say"smile"?)
> 
> I don't know how to make the distinction, since it
> 
> is not entirely about my feeling here:
> 
> I may like them, but they are really doing good things
> 
> to/for me.
>> As you say, I took the simple literal "pona" meaning, "earth and sky
> are good to me", "they make something good to me". The usual meaning
> "I like X" is an idiom indeed.
>> Perhaps we could be more precise, but the text would be longer.Yes, fitting the text in is a problem, but it might be worth it to avoid thebackward claim thatthis version brings, since the "I like" is so entrenched.
> 
> The believe piece is hard; literally I sup\[pose it has to be
> 
> "mi pilin e ni: jan sewi li lon."
>> That would be the literal translation, yes.
>> 
> Of course you intend the "tawa mi" to work
> 
> ;like the usual "pona tawa mi"
>> I felt it reflects the original, but using other structure: The
> original "I believe in god" becomes "God exists to/for me". At the
> same time, it is parallel to the first verse. I liked that solution.
> Also, it is very close to the TP expression "ali li pona".
>> 
> but, outside the idiom, it
> 
> may work more directly, modifying just "lon"
> 
> and giving God's purpose or goal or proprietor.
>> "jan sewi li lon mi" you mean? I don't understand.
>I meant that what you want is the whole "God exists" is what is to/for me ormaybe just "existsfor me" ("lon tawa mi" as Head Mod v. Pred Prep) is a predicate of God, which iswhat thestructure suggests. "lon mi" looks like "chez moi", "at me" and doesn't havemuch dative sense, Ithink. I do like the parallelisms, but it is undercut somewhat by the fact thatthe firstsentence doesn't quite work and the last is not very clear. Having said allthat, I don't have anysuggestions for fixing it and I do like the way it flows.