---
author: "AJK"
date: 2007-11-19 09:59:41 UTC
nestinglevel: 0
---
Recieved by the moderator of this Toki Pona list. I'm just interested  
in who added the list to Gmane.  
  
If this link doesn't cause spam, it's ok and I won't take further  
action. As soon as spam appears this way, I might close the link out  
on the Yahoo-side, so it won't work anymore...  
  
mi tawa,  
  
jan Mimoku  
  
\---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: Gmane Administrator <\*\*\*@m.gmane.org>  
Date: 18 nov. 2007 18:04  
Subject: tokipona added to Gmane  
To: tokipona-\*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
  
  
We have received a request for adding the \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
mailing list to the Gmane mail-to-news gateway/archive. A subscription  
request message has been sent. If this is contrary to your wishes,  
please send a mail to \*\*\*@gmane.org saying so, and the list will be  
removed from Gmane.  
  
Gmane is a mail-to-news portal that never expires its messages. It  
therefore also functions as a mailing list archive. It's a  
bi-directional gateway, but Gmane verifies that its users' email  
addresses are valid before passing the messages through the  
news-to-mail gateway. (Groups can also be made "read-only", which  
means that Gmane won't forward any messages at all to the mailing  
list.)  
  
Gmane can encrypt addresses to make address harvesting difficult, and  
heeds X-No-Archive and related headers.  
  
If you wish to import older archives into Gmane, send a message to  
the Gmane administrators with the URL of a Unix mbox archive of the  
mailing list.  
  
In partnership with The Mail Archive, messages will be archived on  
that service as well. This provides redundancy across two archival  
services.  
  
The following parameters are set for this mailing list:  
  
\* Newsgroup name: gmane.culture.language.tokipona  
\* Mailing list address: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
\* The gateway is bi-directional  
\* Address encryption is off  
\* Spam detection is on  
\* The list is described as:  
"Discussion of and in Toki Pona, a minimalist constructed language"  
\* News URL: news://news.gmane.org/gmane.culture.language.tokipona  
\* Web URL: http://dir.gmane.org/gmane.culture.language.tokipona  
  
This newsgroup will be created when the first message from the  
mailing list arrives.  
  
For more information about the Gmane project, go to  
<URL: http://gmane.org/>.  
  
For more information about The Mail Archive, go to  
<URL: http://www.mail-archive.com/>.  
  
This request was handled by  
Lars Magne Ingebrigtsen <\*\*\*@gnus.org>.  

***

\--  
Can you trust your computer? - http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/can-you-trust.html  
  
<>< \* Mi estas Kristana Esperantisto \* <><  


***