---
author: "Damian Yerrick"
date: 2004-07-25T05:56:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "B. Knight" <bknight009@y...
> wrote:

> I liked your translations. They're creative.Thanks.
> But I do want to comment on a few of them.
>> Set 1, 24. "Bad hair day"\* tenpo pi ken ala pali e linja
> time of inability to build the hair
> This phrase in Toki Pona is not grammatically correct.
> You can't put a whole verb phrase as being a noun
> after the pi.Oh my god, you killed gerund!
> I might suggest making the translation
> more direct: "tenpo suno pi linja ike".right.
> Set 2, 6. The person who shot JFK worked for the CIA.
> TP: jan li moli e jan Kenesi li pali lon kulupu insa
> sona.
> En: Person shot person named Kennedy and worked in the
> central group of knowledge.
>> Set 2, 16. The CEO of IBM is the spouse of someone
> present.
> TP: jan suli pi kulupu IBM li jan olin pi jan lon.
> En: Big person of group called IBM is the SO of
> somebody present.
> I've never seen lon used as an adjective.The sprung from a discussion (on the list or on IRC? Iforget) about improvising <lon
> as a noun meaning "place".Given that, plus the verb meaning "to be present" from thedictionary, I generalized it to the adjective.
> The TP dictionary doesn't mention that it can be used as such.Sonja mentioned that the parts of speech in TP are rather fluidand driven by context, as in Chinese, and if <tawa
> can mean "go","toward", and "movement"...
> Not exactly sure how I might fix the sentence, though.<...pi jan lon ni
> "of someone at this"?
> Set 2, 41. The only pear left on the tree is rotten.
> TP: kili taso lon kasi ni li jaki.
> En: Only fruit on this plant is polluted.
> Grammatically, you can't have prepositional phrases in
> the subject.Say what?
> I might write this sentence as:
> kili wan taso li awen lon kasi ni. ona li jaki.I'll have to think about that.Any translations of the rest of the list?--
Damian