---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-06-29T23:32:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
As I said a long time ago, there are various schools of tokiponists, partlyrelated to variousgoals that have for tp. Some tp as a fixed entity totally defined by itsdescription at some onepoint in time (there are several choices for what time to pick so there areseveral subgroups) andthis is tied to tp as a meditation aid for creating a certain frame of mind(again there areseveral possible descriptions of that state, any of which --
 except perhaps theone associatingthe project with Daoism --
 can be plausibly connected with features of thelanguage). A secondschool thinks of tp and its descendants as the simplest IAL, or, at least, alanguage capable ofcarrying almost any normal conversation between people from different placesmeeting somewhere.This school sees tp as an evolving entity, changing an growing as it confrontsnew situations, butremaining true to the basic simplicity (just needing a few new things...). Andthere are thosewho look on tp as a great experimental tool (or a wonderful toy): just how farcan we go alongsome route without actually violating the fundamentals of tp (the formal ones,not thephilosophical ones). They too must see the language as evolving, but withperhaps greaterrestraint on the course of that evolution than an auxlanger would place. All ofthis bearssomewhat on the issues here. For the first group, any change in any aspect of tpis to violate thelanguage (I am an Episcopalian, so I am familiar with the fundamentalistinsistenc on the trruh"once delivered to the saints") But the fact is that at every one of thosepoints of fixation,the tp material (like th Bible in the other cases)already has agreed to furtherdevelopments, sothe path is open to at least the experimentalist to do things and still beinside the confines ofHoly Writ (one or another set of lessons says). Relevantly here, the line aboutmaking atransitive verb out of just about anything has been either explicit or implicitat every stage andis explicit in the current texts. The list of prepositions has grown and shrunkand changed overthe sic years or so of tp, but the changes have all tended toward a small numberof patterns,patterns which words not yet prepositions fit as well as those which are, layingopen a path ofpossible development --
 it it buys any advantage. Similarly, the variousclassifications of words--
 of which there are several --
 have all ended one way or another wth theadmonition not to puttoo much stock in the class assigned to a word, since it might (even probablywill) occur in someother role.---
 Francois Schwicker <[bubi4919@yahoo.com](mailto://bubi4919@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

>> ---
 John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

>> 
> I find these lists just fascinating, since I
> 
> immediately recognize both the "only intransitive"
> 
> verbs as being transitive too (put to sleep, put in
> 
> place)
>> OK, prove it !What will count as evidence? If I cite someone using it, you will say that thecitation is merelya mistake. If I point out that it is an instance of a general rule(permission), you can --
 fromsome philosophical stronghold, deny that the rule is legitimate ("it goesagainst the spirit" --
whereas I think it is at the heart of that spirit) or that it has never actuallybeen used forthis case.
> Further, many of
> 
> these "verbs" are hard to see as verbs at all,
> 
> especially transitive ones: ijo, say, or jan (we
> 
> don't really say in tp that someone jans a boat,
> 
> do we?).
>> "jan" as a verb means : "personify, personalize,
> humanize". You should have a look at the official word
> list, sometimes. It's really a fascinating lecture !The official list forms the seed of the larger dictionary I have in hand, so Iam reading in itevery day. The rest is actual usage, often, alas, not well checked forpropriety since no onelooks at the pieces put out for inspection. So, in fact, some things on thatlist, thoughactually used, may be simply errors. The "jan the boat" line was a joke, leftover from Loglan,that made that error (among many others0. Note that the official meaning of"jan" is anotherexample of the general rule for transitivization.
>>> 
> The list should not be used to limit
> 
> what will happen outside that corpus, especially
> 
> since much of tp material points to the claim
> 
> that, in appropriate circumstances, almost any word
> 
> can function in almost any grammatical
> 
> category
>> Are you sure you are talking about toki pona ? Then
> why did jan Sonja define these categories ?As noted, all the various category definitions end up with the caution that theyare neithercomplete nor exhaustive; that not all the actual ranges of use have beenaccounted for nor everyword put into all its categories. But every language book ahs to begin withsome hooks to hangones developing knowledge on; eventually we either throe away those hooks totake on morerealistic categories or we keep the old cateries and learn how things slide. tp is a veryEnglish language in at least the sense tha things can and do slide around veryeasily --
 andwithout an outward sign of change (replace the -a with -o or -i, say).
>>> Making
> 
> prepositions is trickier and certain paths have
> 
> been headed off (body parts can't be preps on their
> 
> own, they need "lon").
>>> The only prepositions are : kepeken, lon, poka, sama,
> tan and tawa.This information by itself would almost be enough to date the stage of tphistory where youreceived the tablets. It was after the death of "kan" and of the body-partprepositions and after"sama" was added as a preposition rather than a modifier. I'd have to look atthe corpus to getthe actual date for that. The need for other prepositiobs has been noted andsome actuallyproposed, but these suggested have mainly been rejected (if they have been) ontheir merits (orrather lack of them) and not just because they are not already on some list. thelist is a reasonto treat something as a preposition, but not to say it can't be one.
> I find, it is much more funny to play by the rule and
> try to express oneself in toki pona than to try to
> make another language out of it !I agree, but I have a more encompassing view of what the rules are --
 and mineare in the sametexts as your.
> jan Kanso
>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\\\_\_\_\_
> Fussy? Opinionated? Impossible to please? Perfect. Join Yahoo!'s user paneland lay it on us.
> [http://surveylink.yahoo.com/gmrs/yahoo_panel_invite.asp?a=7](http://surveylink.yahoo.com/gmrs/yahoo_panel_invite.asp?a=7)\
>>