---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2007-07-02T13:08:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Francois Schwicker <[bubi4919@yahoo.com](mailto://bubi4919@yahoo.com)\
> schrieb: ---
 John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

> I find these lists just fascinating, since I
> immediately recognize both the "only intransitive"
> verbs as being transitive too (put to sleep, put in
> place) OK, prove it !Further, many of
> these "verbs" are hard to see as verbs at all,
> especially transitive ones: ijo, say, or jan (we
> don'treally say in tp that someone jans a boat,
> do we?). "jan" as a verb means : "personify, personalize,humanize". You should have a look at the official wordlist, sometimes. It's really a fascinating lecture !
> The list should not be used to limit
> what will happen outside that corpus, especially
> since much of tp material points to the claim
> that, in appropriate circumstances, almost any word
> can function in almost any grammatical
> category Are you sure you are talking about toki pona ? Thenwhy did jan Sonja define these categories ?Making
> prepositions is trickier and certain paths have
> been headed off (body parts can't be preps on their
> own, they need "lon").The only prepositions are : kepeken, lon, poka, sama,tan and tawa. As long as "poka" is accepted as a preposition, "sewi", "anpa" and "monsi" should as well be able to act asprepositions, shouldn't they? jan ElumutuI find, it is much more funny to play by the rule andtry to express oneself in toki pona than to try tomake another language out of it !jan Kanso \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Fussy? Opinionated? Impossible to please? Perfect. Join Yahoo!'s user panel and lay it on us. [http://surveylink.yahoo.com/gmrs/yahoo_panel_invite.asp?a=7](http://surveylink.yahoo.com/gmrs/yahoo_panel_invite.asp?a=7) Die besten Tipps und Tricks fürs Grillen. BE A BETTER GRILLMEISTER!