---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-07-02T14:06:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
"poka" is a preposition but not meaning "on/at/in the side of " but "with"(accompaniment). Forthe literal spatial location X relative to an object, "lon X" is to be used (theothers werepropeitions early on, but were changed --
 I suspect mainly to allow "poka" itsbroader sense,replacing an earlier "kan").---
 Helmut Voigt <[akesi_palisa@yahoo.de](mailto://akesi_palisa@yahoo.de)\
> wrote:

>>> Francois Schwicker <[bubi4919@yahoo.com](mailto://bubi4919@yahoo.com)\
> schrieb:
> ---
 John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

>> 
> I find these lists just fascinating, since I
> 
> immediately recognize both the "only intransitive"
> 
> verbs as being transitive too (put to sleep, put in
> 
> place)
>> OK, prove it !
>> Further, many of
> 
> these "verbs" are hard to see as verbs at all,
> 
> especially transitive ones: ijo, say, or jan (we
> 
> don't really say in tp that someone jans a boat,
> 
> do we?).
>> "jan" as a verb means : "personify, personalize,
> humanize". You should have a look at the official word
> list, sometimes. It's really a fascinating lecture !
>> 
> The list should not be used to limit
> 
> what will happen outside that corpus, especially
> 
> since much of tp material points to the claim
> 
> that, in appropriate circumstances, almost any word
> 
> can function in almost any grammatical
> 
> category
>> Are you sure you are talking about toki pona ? Then
> why did jan Sonja define these categories ?
>> Making
> 
> prepositions is trickier and certain paths have
> 
> been headed off (body parts can't be preps on their
> 
> own, they need "lon").
>> The only prepositions are : kepeken, lon, poka, sama,
> tan and tawa.
> As long as "poka" is accepted as a preposition, "sewi", "anpa" and "monsi"should as well be
> able to act as prepositions, shouldn't they?
> jan Elumutu
>> I find, it is much more funny to play by the rule and
> try to express oneself in toki pona than to try to
> make another language out of it !
>> jan Kanso
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> Fussy? Opinionated? Impossible to please? Perfect. Join Yahoo!'s user paneland lay it on us.
> [http://surveylink.yahoo.com/gmrs/yahoo_panel_invite.asp?a=7](http://surveylink.yahoo.com/gmrs/yahoo_panel_invite.asp?a=7)\
>>>>>>> ---------------------------------

> Die besten Tipps und Tricks fürs Grillen. BE A BETTER GRILLMEISTER!