---
author: "Marcos CRUZ"
date: 2007-04-12T21:25:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Mi legis jenon en la lecionoj cxe Pije, mi kredas:-----------------------------
·Incorrect:mi toki pi jan. --
 I talked about people.·Correct: mi toki jan. --
 I talked about peopleThe "about" is simply implied by the sentence. Now here's anothersentence which is correct and in which pi is used to mean "about":·mi toki pi jan ike. --
 I talked about bad people.The reason that pi can be used here is because jan ike is its ownsingular, individual concept, and the combined phrase (jan ike) actson toki as one thing; pi is simply used to distinguish the jan ikephrase. If you left out pi, both jan and ike would become adverbs,and the sentence would mean something really strange like "Humanely,I talked evilly."--------------------------
I understand the use of "pi" to make a break in the grouping, butit's not the problem here. My doubt is:If "mi toki jan ike" means "Humanely, I talked evilly" (it's thelogical meaning, following the rules),why "mi toki jan" does not mean "I talked humanely"??? The problem isthe implied "about", I think.Mi kredas \[mi revenenas Esperanton, ege pli facile al mi\] ke se la e-marko cxiam estus deviga la afero estus pli simpla:mi toki e X = mi diras/parolas (X-on | pri X | al X)mi toki e X tawa Y = mi diras/parolas (X-on | pri X) (al Y)Cxu ne tiel pli simple? "If you left out pi, both jan and ike wouldbecome adverbs"... only if you already left out "e" :-)Cetere, la oficiala vortaro diras pri "toki", kiel transitiva verbo,nur jenon: "say"! Do, kial forlasi la e-markon? What is the reason?Laux mi, iometa malfacilajxo de Tokipono estas, tiuj vortoj havantajtiel malsamajn uzojn: verbo kaj prepozicio, aux cxi tiaj ne cxiampostulantaj la e-markon.jan Mako--
[http://alinome.net](http://alinome.net)