---
author: "B. Knight"
date: 2005-02-23T03:23:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I've corrected your suggestions. Tthe first line willbe your TP suggestion; the second line is yourtranslation into English; the third line is mysuggestion for the TP phrase; and the fourth line is atranslation of my suggested phrase into English.toki pata lili!hello little cousin!jan lili pi jan sama pi mama mi o, toki!child of sibling of my parent, hello!Mi wile tempo suno ni sina pilin pona tan ni: sina jansuli li pona.I hope you'll have a very good time today becauseyou're a great person and very nice.mi wile e ni: sina musi li pilin pona. mi wile tan ni:sina jan pona!I want that you have fun and feel good. I want becauseof this: You're a good person!Sina musi li sona mute, wawa sina li pona tawa mi.You're funny and you're very intelligent, I like yoursoul and how you're.sina musi tawa mi li sona mute.You're funny to me and know much.\[I dropped the whole bit about soul. While it is quitepossible to say it, are you sure you really want to?Talking about someone's soul in a birthday card seemsa little odd; the meaning might be distorted when outof context like this.\]Mi pilin e sina ken kama jo e ali sina wile.I believe you can get anything you want.sina wile jo la sina ken.If you want to have, you can.Sina pana ali pona e mi mute. Mi wile sina sona mi ensina li jan pona.You always give us the best. I want you to know we'refriends.tenpo ali la sina pona tawa mi mute. sina jan pona mi.Always you are good to us. You are my friend.Sina nanpa wan!You're number one.sina pona mute!You're awesome! \[Saying that someone is "number one"is an idiom. If you tried to say it in Toki Pona, itmight come out as something like "sina jan pi nanpawan" which might imply that he were literally thefirst person ever to exist. Which I hope he's not.That would be kind of scary if Adam were still walkingamongst us. But I digress.\]Finally, i would like to know how to say happybirthday!We've actually talked about this in the TP chat roombefore. One idea that I liked in particular to expresssomeone's birthday is just calling it that person'sday. (December 26, my birthday, would be called"Pije's day" for example.)So "Happy Birthday" might be "ni li tenpo suno sinaa!" which literally means "This is your day!"and if olin is used to say you love someone in yourfamily or only for your boyfriendYou can use it for anyone you actually feel lovetowards, which includes family members. You would notuse olin for some obscure person whom you've neverreally met. You wouldn't "olin" a particular moviestar, for example, unless you were some sort ofstalker and really felt emotionally attached to thecelebrity.--
jan Pije\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Do you Yahoo!?Yahoo! Mail - Easier than ever with enhanced search. Learn more.[http://info.mail.yahoo.com/mail_250](http://info.mail.yahoo.com/mail_250)