---
author: "kurum3@aol.com"
date: 2003-07-11T15:48:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
jan Tomini o, toki! sina pona ala pona?mi wile pona e toki sina. taso mi ken ala pona e toki sina kepeken toki pona. sina sona ala e toki Inli la o pana e sona ni tawa mi. mi ken toki lili kepeken toki Epanja. mi sona ala e toki ante.I had a bit of a time trying to figure out what you said. Before I actually respond to your letter in Toki Pona, I want to answer a few of the questions that you asked first and make sure I understood what you wanted to say.You asked about "ilo meli li unpa lukin".I was referring to the female Terminator from the new Terminator movie. Since the terminators are machines, I used "ilo". And I added "meli" to make sure you knew I was talking about the woman terminator, and not the Arnold Schwarzenegger one. --
 unpa lukin is how you say "sexy" in Toki Pona. A somewhat literal translation would be "visual sex". A more casual translation would be "sexy to look at".So: ilo meli li unpa lukin. = The female terminator is sexy.You asked: mi toki e "jan olin en mi pali e ijo" anu "jan olin en mi li pali e ijo"?Okay, I assume that by "jan olin" you were trying to talk about your girlfriend. (I'm assuming that you're a man who has a girlfriend. I apologize in advance if I'm wrong.) While this is okay, it's more common to simply say "meli" or "mije". Also, I'd add a possessive "mi" at the end. So, here's how I would say it:mi en meli mi li pali e ijo. --
 I and my girlfriend are doing something.The "li" is needed because the subject is something other than just "mi" or just "sina".What exactly did you mean by "sitelen tawa"? I noticed that you also sometimes worded it "tawa sitelen". I downloaded your file, but it doesn't have a file extension, and I can't figure out what I'm supposed to do with it. --
 The phrase "sitelen tawa" means either a television show or a movie; it can also mean cartoon. Did you mean that you and your girlfriend are making an animated form of "kasi pona" or something? If so, that'd be neat.On the second sentence of your post, you said "ni mute toki". I don't understand what you meant by this.On one sentence you said: sina mute li ken lukin e sitelen tawa pi toki pona pi mi.Move the "mi" part back with "sitelen tawa". So it ends up like this:sitelen tawa mi pi toki pona --
 my motion picture of toki pona There. Since the rest of what I want to say is not technical and nit-picky like the grammar issues, I'll write everything else I want to say in Toki Pona:sina toki kepeken toki pona. ni li pona! mi wile e ni: jan ante li sama sina.ma Latija li seme? meli sina li tawa ma ni tan seme? tenpo pi mute seme la ona li lon ma Latija?sina kin toki e ni: mi mute li ken lukin e sitelen tawa sina pi toki pona. taso mi ken ala open e ona! mi wile lukin e ona. o pana e sona tawa mi.mi wile tawa. mi wile e ni: tenpo kama la mi kute e toki sina.mi tawa.mi jan Pije.