---
author: "Dominique Unruh"
date: 2003-07-11T21:16:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\[Mi pardonpetas al chiuj, kiuj ne regas la anglan, sed mi estas tropigras traduki chion. Vidu suben, Vi tie trovos Tokiponan tekston.\]\[Stuff in Toki Pona below\]
> unpa lukin is how you say "sexy" in Toki Pona.I supposed so, but I couldn't really match it with my ideas about Tokigrammar. This is why: When you say "li unpa lukin", then "unpa" issomething like "fucks" or "is sex", while "lukin" is an attribute,i.e. something like "seeing" or "visual". So "li unpa lukin" I wouldrather translate as "visibly fucks" or so.Compare that to "li pona lukin". I think this is the same thing. Iwould rather say, "li lukin pona", therefore I say "li lukin unpa"(looks sex = is sexy), which should of course not be mixed with "lilukin e unpa" = "to peep".
> You asked: mi toki e "jan olin en mi pali e ijo" anu "jan olin en mi li pali
> e ijo"?
> Okay, I assume that by "jan olin" you were trying to talk about your
> girlfriend. (I'm assuming that you're a man who has a girlfriend. I
> apologize in advance if I'm wrong.) While this is okay, it's more
> common to simply say "meli" or "mije".Hmm. I think, meli/mije does not really refer to the relation to thatperson. And as I say "jan pona" for friend, and not simply "jan", Ithink the relation is stressed more clearly by "jan olin" (or perhaps,of course, "meli olin").
> Also, I'd add a possessive "mi" at the end.I did this at the first occurrence of "jan olin". Later I skipped thatsuffix for the sake of brevity, because I implicitly assumed, thatthere are not other girl-friends appearing in my text.
> The "li" is needed because the subject is something other than just "mi" or
> just "sina".OK. And after "mi mute", "sina mute", "sina en mi"?
> What exactly did you mean by "sitelen tawa"?Cartoon.
> you also sometimes worded it "tawa sitelen".This was an error. I meant "sitelen tawa".
> I downloaded your file,Sorry, that was not an attachment, but a signature. My mail wastext-only, simply ignore any attachments, I would not send any tomailing lists (just links).
> Did you mean that you and your girlfriend are making an animated
> form of "kasi pona" or something?Lon.
> On the second sentence of your post, you said "ni mute toki". I don't
> understand what you meant by this.Sorry. I meant "mi mute li toki". Too many errors.
> ma Latija li seme?ma Latija li anpa ma Esi. jan Inlisu li toki "Latvia". jan Latija litoki "Latvija". jan pi toki pona li toki "ma Latija" tan ni.
> meli sina li tawa ma ni tan seme? tenpo pi mute seme la
> ona li lon ma Latija?mi sona ala e ni: meli olin mi li wile e ni: mi toki tan ona tawa janali lon ma pi ijo sona (Internet).
> mi mute li ken lukin e sitelen tawa sina pi toki pona.tenpo kama la, sina ken lukin e sitelen tawa. tenpo ni la, sitelentawa li pini ala. meli mi li poka mi la, mi pali e pini pi sitelentawa. taso ni li ike: mun mute li kama li weka la, meli mi likama. (many moons come and go - many months pass)
> mi wile lukin e ona. o pana e sona tawa mi.sina kama lukin e ona. taso tenpo li pona ala. tenpo kama la, sina kenlukin e ona.
> mi wile e ni: tenpo kama la mi kute e toki sina.? (Hear you again?)mi tawa.ali en ale li pona.jan Tomini li toki.