---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2008-04-29T18:36:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Well, tp critters don't match up with English all that well, though the general guidelines are clear.   I think that the water dwelling is more significant for water dwellers than, say, lactation.  But the look is also important ('akesi' is somewhere defined as 'non cute animals'), some water dwellers that don't look like fish might well be 'pipi,' or even 'akesi' jst as some non-brds might be 'waso' and some 'birds (non-flying) might be even 'soweli.' For many of those type crossers there are expressions of both sorts, i.e., with each of the nouns as head ('whale' is --
 inter alia --
 either 'soweli kala suli' or 'kala soweli suli'). It may depend on what feature you are calling attention, which nameyou use on a given occasion  --
 or what you think your hearer will recognize (cf. Lb 'le').-----
 Original Message ----
From: galactonerd <[galactonerd@yahoo.com](mailto://galactonerd@yahoo.com)\
>To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent): Tuesday, April 29, 2008 11:39:12 AMSubject: \[tokipona\] One more question...I've been looking through the lessons again, and I'm a bit confused on the animals."kala" is "fish and other animals that live in water." So are crabs and dolphins "kala?" That seems to be what the pictures suggest. I thought they were "pipi telo" and "soweli telo" (or "soweli kala") respectively. Or does it work either way?ni li lon ala lon: "soweli" li jo e linja li pana e telo mama. "kala" li jo e selo sama akesi. "pipi" li jo e selo kiwen.jan Sosuwa Be a better friend, newshound, and know-it-all with Yahoo! Mobile. Try it now.