---
author: "frpeterjackson"
date: 2008-08-29 01:35:46 UTC
nestinglevel: 1
---
> [_Post by François SCHWICKER_](/A8azi3JD/mani-en-moku#post1)  
> ma ali la tomo mani li pakala. tenpo pini mute la jan lawa Sijatelo  
> (Seattle) li toki e ni : "jan li ken ala moku e mani". ona li toki e  
> lon.  
> jan Kanso  
> 

jan lawa Sijatelo li toki ala e ni!  
  
o lukin e ni:  
  
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chief\_Seattle  
  
There is a controversy about a speech by Sealth concerning the  
concession of native lands to the settlers.  
  
Even the date and location of the speech has been disputed,\[4\] but the  
most common version is that on March 11, 1854, Sealth gave a speech at  
a large outdoor gathering in Seattle. The meeting had been called by  
Governor Isaac Ingalls Stevens to discuss the surrender or sale of  
native land to white settlers. Doc Maynard introduced Stevens, who  
then briefly explained his mission, which was already well understood  
by all present.\[1\]  
  
Sealth then rose to speak. He rested his hand upon the head of the  
much smaller Stevens, and declaimed with great dignity for an extended  
period. No one alive today knows what he said; he spoke in the  
Lushootseed language, and someone translated his words into Chinook  
Indian trade language, and a third person translated that into English.  
  
Some years later, Dr. Henry A. Smith wrote down an English version of  
the speech, based on Smith's notes. It was a flowery text in which  
Sealth purportedly thanked the white people for their generosity,  
demanded that any treaty guarantee access to Native burial grounds,  
and made a contrast between the God of the white people and that of  
his own. Smith noted that he had recorded "...but a fragment of his  
\[Sealth's\] speech". Recent scholarship questions the authenticity of  
Smith's supposed translation.\[5\]  
  
In 1891, Frederick James Grant's History of Seattle, Washington  
reprinted Smith's version. In 1929, Clarence B. Bagley's History of  
King County, Washington reprinted Grant's version with some additions.  
In 1931, John M. Rich reprinted the Bagley version in Chief Seattle's  
Unanswered Challenge. In the 1960s, articles by William Arrowsmith and  
the growth of environmentalism revived interest in Sealth's speech.  
Ted Perry introduced anachronistic material, such as shooting buffalo  
from trains, into a new version for a movie called "Home"\[6\], produced  
for the Southern Baptist Convention's Christian Radio and Television  
Commission.\[7\] The movie sunk without a trace, but this newest and  
most fictional version is the most widely known. Albert Furtwangler  
analyzes the evolution of Sealth's speech in Answering Chief Seattle  
(1997).\[8\]  
  
The speech attributed to Sealth, as re-written by others, has been  
widely cited as "powerful, bittersweet plea for respect of Native  
American rights and environmental values"\[6\], but there is little  
evidence that he actually spoke it. A similar controversy surrounds a  
purported 1855 letter from Sealth to President Franklin Pierce, which  
has never been located and, based on internal evidence, is considered  
"an unhistorical artifact of someone's fertile literary imagination".\[4\]