---
author: "Alexandre Xavier Casanova Domingo"
date: 2003-05-31T22:43:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
    salutos ba totos.    la ingliko non esan una bahaso tre desirata fa mio, ma mio oji lekturin la mesajo kualo aparan under ei mio konprenin puntos suficantas para una refleksiono sur la relativa frakaso de la tokipono.    segon mio, la frakaso de la tokipono esan la tipa frakaso de las semiplanbahasos ou seudoplanbahasos, komo la loglano, la lojbano, la romaniko ou la misma tokipono. unesmamente, kuestas planbahasos dikan ke itos non volontan esar bahasos auksiliantas, ma sel jokatoros, ou lokos de eksperimentasiono, ecetera. non eksistan problema kon kuesas planbahasos non auksiliantas, ma konprenablamente kuasi ninkuno volontan perdar sua tenpo kon planbahasos konpletamente nonutilas para la komunikasiono normala internaciona.    ma, pose, las parolantos de kuesas planbahasos lamentan la manko de uso, ei parolan pro la utileso de kuesas planbahasos komo istrumentos de komunikasiono. mu, naturalmente, via la ingliko, unika bahaso seriosa de kuesta listo!    la misma ideologio "sinplifikanta" de la tokipono frenan kualunka uso de kuesta planbahaso komo bahaso de komunikasiono internaciona. ono dikon ta mio ke la tokipono non pretendan esar una bahaso auksilianta. perfektamente, ma, donke, eske por kualo las tokiponistos lamentan la manko de uso?    la vokabularo inventata ei nonrekonocabla de la tokipono aktuan direktamente kontra la lejo linguistika mater la minima esforco; donke, komo bahaso de komunikasiono internaciona, ninkuno volonton usar la tokipono.    mio donon una eksenplo non tre konplikata, de kemikolojio jenerala.    "la merkuro esan la unika metalo likida, de koloro blanka ei brijo simila komo la brijo ei la aspekto de la arjento ou la platino. tre densa ei pesanta, la merkuro tenan una denseso fa decetrias unesos plus seisas decomos (13'6), prendando la denseso de la akuo komo uneso. la merkuro esan tre usata en la fabrikasiono de aparatos para mensurasiono, por sua granda denseso, sua konduktiveso elektra (komo metalo) ei sua likideso.".    ono poteran tradukar kuesta teksto ba la tokipono, ma la resulto esun tre longa ei kon vokabularo absurdamente oskura.    altra posibleso esan trasformar la tokipono ba una bahaso planata konpletamente dotata de vokabularo: una bahaso para la komunikasiono internaciona, sin obliar altras valoros de la tokipono orijina, komo la invitasiono pro la sinpleso de la modo mater vivar. ma kuesto inplikan ke ono ja non neceson konocar la ingliko para aprendar ei developar la tokipono.    amikamente, fa isa alesandrulo.-----
 Original Message -----
 From: Pije To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com) Sent: Saturday, May 31, 2003 6:04 AMSubject: \[tokipona\] some updates and infoIf anyone could not understand the last few posts, here is the gist:Marraskuu, the creator of our Toki Pona, is undergoing a gender change and is therefore very preoccupied and no longer able to lead the language community efficiently.I have suggested some sort of a more democratic kulupu to help guide future progress in the language, and Marraskuu firmly supported this idea. However, the effort has fallen by the wayside due to a lack of support.Recently, someone posted to these boards that they'd like to see some chat room logs from the Toki Pona chat room. I have collected two logs and posted them here: [http://www.angelfire.com/cantina/tokipona/text/chat.htmlHowever](http://www.angelfire.com/cantina/tokipona/text/chat.htmlHowever), both of these logs are in English and will not give anyone much practice in the language itself. However, this is beyond my control, as it is very difficult to get logs in Toki Pona when there are only a few loyal visitors to the chat room. And, of course, it is much more difficult when there is only one speaker with whom such a conversation could take place. I can not simply create speakers from the grass, as much as I wish I could. These two logs are about the best that can be offered with the current state of things.For anyone who wants genuine Toki Pona to read and practice by, a children's book, complete with illustrations, has been translated into Toki Pona. The Toki Pona is fairly straight-forward and ideal for an intermediate learner. However, for several different reasons, it will not be put on the internet; you will have to come to the Toki Pona chat room and request it from me or someone else who has a copy.Thank you and Good Night--
 PijeYahoo! Groups SponsorADVERTISEMENTTo unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:[tokipona-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.comYour](mailto://tokipona-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.comYour) use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.