---
author: "Marcos CRUZ"
date: 2007-04-27T15:27:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\
> 
> Just a little bit to be sure that, if "li" doesn't appeared yet,it's
> 
> just because there are other things before it, but it will appearat
> 
> last...
> That is, that every declarative sentence contains "li"?I mean the "li" exceptions with "mi" and "sina", again.
> I wonder what purpose you learned Lojban had.
> Its actual prupose has been a matter of discussion
> for two decades, with many schools formed.I meant mainly these purposes (or aspects), I read about in thosedays: to be culturally neutral, to have unambiguous grammar, to bebased on the principles of logic...; the initial goal to investigatethe Sapir–Whorf hypothesis didn't interested me. In fact I did'nt paymuch attention to its history, movement or schools (I just startedstuding "velcli befi la lojban. bei li co'a cilre" and ".i la lojban.mo"). I can imagine that all about the Lojban goals is not so simpleto describe.
> Lojban numbers are easy in theory but terrible in use --

> if the numbers involved get at all large.I know, I tried. I just meant easy to write down and read.Let me explain myself with a comparation:TP already has a nice and easy system to name(almost?) "everything"... though using long expressions and resigningto lack of nuances. Right? You sure can find a expresion to mean"satellite" or "recumbent tandem"... and (hopefully:-) they would beunderstood in their context. But TP is not supposed to be used tocare about such complicated modern things. So, yo have thepossibility to name them, but really it's not very practical becausethe language is not focused on that. Ok?Now, in the same way, why not a simple system just to representnumbers (that are all around in life, more than satellites andrecumbents)? The fact that such a system could exist, does not meanthat the language is supposed to really manage numbers or makecalculations, for example. The possibility to write and read "2007"in TP is not different (in my opinion, if I understand well the TPspirit, I hope so) from the possibility to write and read conceptslike "satellite" and "recumbent tandem": all those things belong tothe "modern" world out there, far away from the TP philosophy andgoals... The difference is that, while I could say, with limitations,"recumbent bike" if I need so (and that would not made me an outcast,I hope), I have no chance to write a one simple year number...What do you think about that point of view?\[ toki e pi sike tu la, mi wile e ni:sina mute lukin e sike tu supa mi.mi kin pali e ona. lipu sona ona lon ni:[http://alinome.net/bici/con_bici01.eo.html](http://alinome.net/bici/con_bici01.eo.html) \]
> 
> words to be said mean... There's an unavoidable linearpresentation.
> Well, Lojban does a lot more to avoid it than tp does.
> On the other hand, it is easier in tp to
> come up with explanatory paraphrases because there are
> so few grammatical sructures to deal with.Jes, that gives freedom to the user and makes TP easier to use.Marcos--
[http://alinome.net](http://alinome.net)