---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-04-27T23:31:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Marcos CRUZ <[tokipona@alinome.net](mailto://tokipona@alinome.net)\
> wrote:

> 
> 
> Just a little bit to be sure that, if "li" doesn't appeared yet,
> it's
> 
> 
> just because there are other things before it, but it will appear
> at
> 
> 
> last...
>> 
> That is, that every declarative sentence contains "li"?
>> I mean the "li" exceptions with "mi" and "sina", again.Understood. I took your remark as indicating that you thought the exceptionsshould be done awaywith.
> 
> I wonder what purpose you learned Lojban had.
> 
> Its actual prupose has been a matter of discussion
> 
> for two decades, with many schools formed.
>> I meant mainly these purposes (or aspects), I read about in those
> days: to be culturally neutral, to have unambiguous grammar, to be
> based on the principles of logic...; the initial goal to investigate
> the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis didn't interested me. In fact I did'nt pay
> much attention to its history, movement or schools (I just started
> studing "velcli befi la lojban. bei li co'a cilre" and ".i la lojban.
> mo"). I can imagine that all about the Lojban goals is not so simple
> to describe.Good approach! The grammar claim is apparently almost true, the others arehighly doubtful (ifintelligible) and the S-W test is a total miss.
> 
> Lojban numbers are easy in theory but terrible in use --

> 
> if the numbers involved get at all large.
>> I know, I tried. I just meant easy to write down and read.
>> Let me explain myself with a comparation:
>> TP already has a nice and easy system to name
> (almost?) "everything"... though using long expressions and resigning
> to lack of nuances. Right? You sure can find a expresion to mean
> "satellite" or "recumbent tandem"... and (hopefully:-) they would be
> understood in their context. But TP is not supposed to be used to
> care about such complicated modern things. So, yo have the
> possibility to name them, but really it's not very practical because
> the language is not focused on that. Ok?I am not sure how many tpers are really in it for either the sou;-simplifying orthe test of howmuch can be said with how little. A fair number at least just like aconstructed language theycan learn in a day (or so)/
> Now, in the same way, why not a simple system just to represent
> numbers (that are all around in life, more than satellites and
> recumbents)? The fact that such a system could exist, does not mean
> that the language is supposed to really manage numbers or make
> calculations, for example. The possibility to write and read "2007"
> in TP is not different (in my opinion, if I understand well the TP
> spirit, I hope so) from the possibility to write and read concepts
> like "satellite" and "recumbent tandem": all those things belong to
> the "modern" world out there, far away from the TP philosophy and
> goals... The difference is that, while I could say, with limitations,
> "recumbent bike" if I need so (and that would not made me an outcast,
> I hope), I have no chance to write a one simple year number...Yes, it seems odd to be able to talk about all manner of odd things in the worldand not to beable to even read off a date, let alone talk meaningfully about numbers or reortlarge quantitueswith some accuracy. Would you, however, be content with merely a set of digitnames, adjectivalto, say "sike suno" but usable as quantifiers? I don't think I would be, thoughgetting at leastthose would be a start.
> What do you think about that point of view?
>> \[ toki e pi sike tu la, mi wile e ni:
> sina mute lukin e sike tu supa mi.
> mi kin pali e ona. lipu sona ona lon ni:
> [http://alinome.net/bici/con_bici01.eo.html](http://alinome.net/bici/con_bici01.eo.html) \]I'm not sure I get this (indeed, I am sure I do not). It raises an interestingquestion: does"kin," which might be taken as having only phonological significance, notinterfere with theexception for "mi"? That is, should it be "mi kin LI pali"? I'm pretty sure itshould be "lipusona ona LI lon." I am not sure tp allows for subjectless sentences, so I am notsure what "tokie" means exactly (oni diras?, but on any version of the rule, "e pi" doesn'twork --
 somethingomitted, but I can't supply it from context. I suppose that "toki e" is meantto be for "talksabout," since I can't think what saying two circles would amount to. "sina muteLI lukin" if Iunderstand it at all, which I apparently don't since I can't figure out whatyour two flat circlesare that we are supposed to see (or the two circles on your skin?).
> 
> 
> words to be said mean... There's an unavoidable linear
> presentation.
>> 
> Well, Lojban does a lot more to avoid it than tp does.
> 
> On the other hand, it is easier in tp to
> 
> come up with explanatory paraphrases because there are
> 
> so few grammatical sructures to deal with.
>> Jes, that gives freedom to the user and makes TP easier to use.
>> Marcos
>> --

> [http://alinome.net](http://alinome.net)\
>>