---
author: "Tyler Eldredge"
date: 2009-05-16T20:54:22+00:00
nestinglevel: 1
---
I think "jo" is used more in the sense of "to have" as a verbs, and "pi" works more like a possessive. "Ilo ni li pi sina" means more like "this is your tool" and "sina jo ilo ni" is "you own this tool," like you said. I think it's more of a question of style, they both mean essentially the same thing, it's just a slightly different way to phrase it.  
  
I might be wrong though, I don't understand Toki Pona very well yet.  
  
\-Tyler  
  
  
  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
From: \*\*\*@yahoo.com  
Date: Fri, 15 May 2009 07:53:55 +0000  
Subject: \[tokipona\] pi vs jo  
Forgive my newb question, but I'm trying to work some stuff out to understand this better...  
  
  
  
Reading lesson 11 (http://bknight0.myweb.uga.edu/toki/lesson/lesson11.html) I see that you can use "pi" to indicate ownership of something.  
  
  
  
ilo ni li pi sina. -- This tool is yours.  
  
  
  
But... doesn't jo cover this already?  
  
  
  
sina jo ilo ni -- You own this tool.  
  
  
  
Is it a case of having multiple ways of saying the same thing? Will one work better in some cases than others? Or am I just not understanding this very well?  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Hotmail® has ever-growing storage! Don’t worry about storage limits.  
http://windowslive.com/Tutorial/Hotmail/Storage?ocid=TXT\_TAGLM\_WL\_HM\_Tutorial\_Storage1\_052009  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]  
  
  
  
\------------------------------------  
  
Yahoo! Groups Links  
  
<\*> To visit your group on the web, go to:  
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/tokipona/  
  
<\*> Your email settings:  
Individual Email | Traditional  
  
<\*> To change settings online go to:  
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/tokipona/join  
(Yahoo! ID required)  
  
<\*> To change settings via email:  
mailto:tokipona-\*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
mailto:tokipona-\*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
  
<\*> To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:  
tokipona-\*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
  
<\*> Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to:  
http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/