---
author: "B. Knight"
date: 2003-10-25T14:16:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
The story was rather easy to follow, even though it has somemistakes. Just to make sure I understood the story like I wassupposed to, I give a brief summary. Tell me if I understood wrong:This guy named Kun Lan has a bunch of animals, and one of them namedSula runs away. His friends try to help Kun La catch the animal, butKun Lan doesn't seem to care. More animals keep running away, but KunLan doesn't care. One day, Kun Lan's son breaks his leg while playingaround with one of the animals. Anyway, the son wants to leave, andKun Lan smiles and tells him that he can't. --
 This is a neat moralbecause people as well as animals don't like to be held in captivity.Maybe?I don't really feel like scrutinizing every error in the text, butthese are the main problems I saw:li usually wasn't used when it was needed. Also, it was sometimesused after "mi", and that's incorrect:"... soweli wan \[li\] kama ala.""mi mute \[li\] sona ala e ni.""mi li \[remove that li\] pakala e noka."There were some problems with la, although that's to be expected.Often times where you used a comma, you could've instead just put inthat "la" and it would've been correct:original: "Taso tenpo suno wan, soweli wan kama ala.corrected: "taso tenpo suno wan la soweli wan li kama ala."Also, I think some of the la phrases are a bit verbose; I probablywould've taken a few of them out.The usage of pi also has some problems. Check out the lesson I wroteabout "pi". I couldn't quite figure out what you were trying to getacross in some sentences where you used pi:jan lili li pakala pi soweli.Ahh. I wasn't quite through with this, but something just came up. Ihave to go. The story's quite nice!mi tawa.jan Pije