---
author: "Helena Weitz"
date: 2003-10-29T02:40:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
toki, jan pi toki pona o! toki, jan Pije!
>The story was rather easy to follow, even though it has some
>mistakes. Just to make sure I understood the story like I was
>supposed to, I give a brief summary. Tell me if I understood wrong:
>This guy named Kun Lan has a bunch of animals,Yes; in the original story, he has got horses.
>and one of them named
>Sula runs away. His friends try to help Kun La catch the animal, but
>Kun Lan doesn't seem to care.Well, the important thing is that the friends do care and feel sorry for KunLan, while Kun Lan says than you never knowwhether a thing is really that bad.
>More animals keep running away, but Kun
>Lan doesn't care.No, it's not quite like that. Another day, Sula comes back (kama!) and bringswith her a bunch of wild horses. So KunLan's friends say he should be happy now because of this good luck. But Kun Lansays that you never know whether athing ist good or bad.
>One day, Kun Lan's son breaks his leg while playing
>around with one of the animals. Anyway, the son wants to leave, and
>Kun Lan smiles and tells him that he can't. --
 This is a neat moral
>because people as well as animals don't like to be held in captivity.
>Maybe?
>Well, here is my version:Time passes, and one day Kun Lan's falls off one of the horses and breaks hisleg. Kun Lan's friends feel sorry with himbecause of his bad luck, but Kun Lan says you never know whether a thing is goodor bad.Some time later, the king's men come to take Kun Lan's son with them formilitary service. But as he still has a brokenleg, they actually don't take him with them and he can stay with his father. AndKun Lan smiles about that.So this is how the story was intended to be understood - but your version isquite nice too. :-)Thanks to Pije and to Dominique (who understood the story in the intended way!)for the annotations concerninggrammar and vocabulary.Mi tawa,jan Eleni