---
author: "Rodrigo PORTELA SÁNCHEZ"
date: 2008-04-03T20:12:49+00:00
nestinglevel: 4
---
> [_Post by Alex_](/US85m766/how-to-say-left-and-right.2#post22)  
> Well, toki pona, is mostly dedicated for simple discourse, to be  
> fastly learned and usable. So it's designed firstly for "survival"  
> sentences. "I am ..." "I feel sick", "I need a biere", etc...  
> In this category, I put also the fact to ask his way when you are in  
> a foreign country. (Ok, the probability to find a tokiponist in New  
> york is very low, but no matter). So in that sense, "left" and "right",  
> are really needed.  
> 

I was thinking about right that some hours ago :-), and I got to the  
conclusion that "left" and "right" may be useful, but not really  
necessary even in such a case — you can always tell somebody to turn  
towards some place or thing they are to find when they arrive to the  
right point. "Keep walking until the square and turn towards the bus  
stop": o tawa ma sike (?). sina kama ona la sina lukin e tomo awen pi  
tomo tawa pi jan mute. o tawa ona. The only such kind of situation  
where I think "left" and "right" would be necessary is when you cannot  
really use anything as a reference. Just think you must tell someone  
how to arrive somewhere, and they must turn left at some crossroads  
where not even a tree or anything can be used as a reference to point  
to the right (left :-P) direction. Well, even in such a case you can  
first establish (by using your hands) you're going to talk about \_poka  
nanpa wan\_ and \_poka nanpa tu\_, for example, or \_poka pona\_ (the one  
that's going to be the right... eh... left one) and \_poka ike\_ (the  
wrong right side :-) ), so you can use the expression when you come to  
the point when you have to tell them to turn to the left. This might  
sound a little strange, but I think it's the kind of process they use,  
for example, to establish the intended meaning and localisation of the  
so-called classifiers to be used in an explanation in sign languages,  
isn't it?  
  
ni li pona ala pona tawa sina?  
  
jan Loliko  
  
\------------------------------------  
  
Yahoo! Groups Links  
  
<\*> To visit your group on the web, go to:  
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/tokipona/  
  
<\*> Your email settings:  
Individual Email | Traditional  
  
<\*> To change settings online go to:  
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/tokipona/join  
(Yahoo! ID required)  
  
<\*> To change settings via email:  
mailto:tokipona-\*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
mailto:tokipona-\*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
  
<\*> To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:  
tokipona-\*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
  
<\*> Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to:  
http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/