---
author: "jan Jo"
date: 2008-04-04T03:42:38+00:00
nestinglevel: 5
---
> [_Post by Rodrigo PORTELA SÁNCHEZ_](/US85m766/how-to-say-left-and-right.2#post24)  
> 
> > [_Post by Alex_](/US85m766/how-to-say-left-and-right.2#post22)  
> > Well, toki pona, is mostly dedicated for simple discourse, to be  
> > fastly learned and usable. So it's designed firstly for "survival"  
> > sentences. "I am ..." "I feel sick", "I need a biere", etc...  
> > In this category, I put also the fact to ask his way when you are in  
> > a foreign country. (Ok, the probability to find a tokiponist in New  
> > york is very low, but no matter). So in that sense, "left" and "right",  
> > are really needed.  
> > 
> 
> I was thinking about right that some hours ago :-), and I got to the  
> conclusion that "left" and "right" may be useful, but not really  
> necessary even in such a case ? you can always tell somebody to turn  
> towards some place or thing they are to find when they arrive to the  
> right point. "Keep walking until the square and turn towards the bus  
> stop": o tawa ma sike (?). sina kama ona la sina lukin e tomo awen pi  
> tomo tawa pi jan mute. o tawa ona. The only such kind of situation  
> where I think "left" and "right" would be necessary is when you cannot  
> really use anything as a reference. Just think you must tell someone  
> how to arrive somewhere, and they must turn left at some crossroads  
> where not even a tree or anything can be used as a reference to point  
> to the right (left :-P) direction. Well, even in such a case you can  
> first establish (by using your hands) you're going to talk about \_poka  
> nanpa wan\_ and \_poka nanpa tu\_, for example, or \_poka pona\_ (the one  
> that's going to be the right... eh... left one) and \_poka ike\_ (the  
> wrong right side :-) ), so you can use the expression when you come to  
> the point when you have to tell them to turn to the left. This might  
> sound a little strange, but I think it's the kind of process they use,  
> for example, to establish the intended meaning and localisation of the  
> so-called classifiers to be used in an explanation in sign languages,  
> isn't it?  
> 

mi kute e ni: jan pi ma tomo Kijoto ("Kyoto" lon ma Nijon) li wile pana sona e nasin la,  
ona li kepeken ala e nimi "left" "right" li kepeken e nimi "north" "south" "east" "west".  
  
  
jan Jo  
  
(toki pona) http://geocities.com/yohsweb/  
(toki Nijon) http://www.yohs.net