---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2008-04-03 15:39:21 UTC
nestinglevel: 2
---
On either half of the earth, the sun "moves" from left to right, provided you look southwards. So, poka pi kama suno = left, poka pi tawa (anu weka) suno = right.  
One might adapt the Arabic expressions for left and right to tp phonetics as follws: Right is "yamin" (tp suggestion: \[poka\] jamin), left is "yasar" (tp suggestion: \[poka\] jasa). Both suggestions seem to fit well into tp word structures.  
Probably, the best solution would be a simple and useful suggestion by mama pi toki pona who has invented words for "front, back, top, bottom, and side".  
mi wile sona e ni: pilin pi sina mute li seme? pilin mi li pona ala pona?  
jan Elumutu  
  
John E Clifford <\*\*\*@yahoo.com> schrieb:  
Though I don't like this version, why not use the simpler form to the same effect: 'poka open' and 'poka pini'?  
  
\----- Original Message ----  
From: Rick Miller <\*\*\*@gmail.com>  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Sent: Monday, March 31, 2008 6:54:08 PM  
Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] How to say "left" and "right"?  
  
There is already an arbitrary definition of left and right in Toki Pona.  
The written form of the language goes from left to right.  
  
Therefore the most logical differentiation between left and right  
would be "poka pi nanpa wan" and "poka pi nanpa tu" (side#1 and  
side#2), from the viewpoint of the person doing the looking.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\---------------------------------  
You rock. That's why Blockbuster's offering you one month of Blockbuster Total Access, No Cost.  
  
  
  
  
\---------------------------------  
Gesendet von Yahoo! Mail.  
Dem pfiffigeren Posteingang.