---
author: "frpeterjackson"
date: 2004-07-01T20:46:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "B. Knight" <bknight009@y...
> wrote:

> \*compare/weigh/judge, compari/pezi/jugxi
>> Were you wanting a specific verb to use for judge?
> There really isn't one, but the idea sometimes can be
> expressed in context. Look at this dialogue:
>> jan Pepe: len mi li pona. len sina li ike.
> Pepe: My shirt is good. Your shirt is bad. \[In other
> words, he's comparing the shirts.\]
>> jan Penelope: o toki ala e ni!
> Penelope: Don't say that! \[In other words, she's
> telling Pepe not to judge the shirts.\]
>>mi: lon la mi wile kama jo e nimi 'kompari'. mi wile ala toki kepekenpilin 'kompari': 'Li komparis la grandecon de la du sxtonoj.' tenponi la mi pilin e ni. ken la jan li ken toki e ni. 'ona li pana ekiwen suli lon poka kiwen lili.''pezi': ken la jan li ken toki e ni. 'jan li wile sona e suli kiwen.'
> \* heavy, peza
> Again, there's no word for this, but you still can
> express it. Imagine that there is a big rock that is
> heavy. You might say something like "If you want to
> move this stone, you will have to work a lot." (sina
> wile tawa e kiwen ni la sina wile pali mute.)pona!
>> \* left/right, dekstra/maldekstra
> There is no direct way to express this. But, it can
> still be done in a round-about way. Try to imagine
> that you are a Toki Ponan who lives together with
> other Toki Ponans. You see them and can talk to them
> directly. Imagine some Toki Pona speakers sitting
> around talking together, or walking through nature.
> Anyhow, if the language were used in this situation,
> you could use landmarks and natural objects in the
> area as a reference. For example, the speaker could
> simply point in the direction he's talking about, and
> everyone would understand because they can see him.
> Therefore, there is no need for the words left and
> right. Use objects that exist in the area as landmarks
> to specify left and right. If the speaker wanted to
> talk about his left hand, he could just say "luka ni"
> then wave around his left hand a little bit, or point
> to it using his right hand.pona!
>> If you've played my translation of Zelda 1, you will
> discover I used this method to describe the secret
> path that allows you to escape the forest.
>> \* east/west, orienta/okcidenta
> Use something like 'ma pi suno kama' for east, because
> the sun arrives from the east.
>> Something like 'ma pi suno weka' could be used for
> west.pilin pona mute!
>>> \* In your message, you wrote:
 jan sonja li weka e nimi
> 'pakila'. tenpo ni la jan li toki seme?
>> I think you've made a mistake. There never was a word
> 'pakila' in Toki Pona. What word did you mean? The
> word 'pakala' is still in the dictionary; it is a very
> common word.
>> jan Pije
>a! mi wile toki e nimi 'pasila'. mi wile ala sitelen e nimi 'pasila'.mi sona ala nasin ni. tenpo ale la mi sitelen nasa. taso mi sona eni. tenpo pini la toki pona li kepeken e nimi 'pasila'.pona mute, jan Pije o!jan Pita
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> Do you Yahoo!?
> New and Improved Yahoo! Mail - Send 10MB messages!
> [http://promotions.yahoo.com/new_mail](http://promotions.yahoo.com/new_mail)