---
author: "frpeterjackson"
date: 2007-01-20T18:59:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "kate rhodes" <masukomi@...
> wrote:

>> On 1/19/07, Sonja Elen Kisa <sonja@...
> wrote:

> 
> For value I'd just use pona. Why do you feel that doesn't work?
>> because pona is good or at the very least comes with the implication
> of good. The worth or value of something is very frequently separate
> from how good it is. Magnifying glasses are good things.The magnifying
> glass in my swiss army knife is a good thing with almost no value. It
> would take a lot to make that distinction in toki pona.
>> 
> I thought centre or middle was "insa".
> it is, but, for me at least, it's back to the issue of subtleties.
> toki pona is a language of concepts and the concept behind insa is
> much much closer to inside / within. There's no good way that i see
> to tell someone to stand in the actual center of some big circle. I
> can tell them to stand "insa" it but that's not even remotely the same
> thing.
>Kate, thanks for supporting me on the "centre" issue.Value, worth: I've wondered about this, too. I've tried phrases with"mani", e.g. ijo mani --
 value vs. lipu mani --
 money itself, butthen what to do with "the value of money"?Speed: Let's start w/high school physics: Speed = distance/time. So"tenpo" comes into play:tomo tawa li kama tawa tomo mi kepeken tenpo lili.The car pulled up to my house "using little time".Choose: I was translated news items for a while, but then I got hungup at election time. How to say "elect" or "vote for" or "choose"?jan Pita