---
author: "kate rhodes"
date: 2007-01-20T23:37:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\
> Value, worth: I've wondered about this, too. I've tried phrases with
> "mani", e.g. ijo mani --
 value vs. lipu mani --
 money itself, but
> then what to do with "the value of money"?right, and most people find it insulting to have their worth definedin terms of money.
>> Speed: Let's start w/high school physics: Speed = distance/time. So
> "tenpo" comes into play:
>> tomo tawa li kama tawa tomo mi kepeken tenpo lili.
> The car pulled up to my house "using little time".see that doesn't really work for me. There are many things that can bedone slowly but in a short amount of time.
> Choose: I was translated news items for a while, but then I got hung
> up at election time. How to say "elect" or "vote for" or "choose"?I think i'm with Sonja on this one. I haven't been convinced that"seme" doesn't adequately fill the need. Voting and Electing areactions more than choices. Voting / Electing is the process you gothrough in order to choose something. So, even if we had "choose" itwouldn't serve the same purpose. Voting and choice, in English havecome to be almost interchangeable but their meaning really isn't. If Iask you who you think is the best candidate that's about your choice.If I ask you who someone will vote for what you are really saying is"which name will you put on your ballot when you go to the polls"which, as you can see, is more concerning the process and the ballotthan actual name, even though all you care about is really the name.This isn't to say there isn't value in speaking about the process too.It serves, indirectly, to confirm if the person you are talking towill actually get off of their butts and take advantage of thegreatest right many of us have.lon tenpo Polling la seme li nimi e insa pi lipu sina?ni li pona tawa sina?---
 kate = masukomihttp://weblog.masukomi.org/