---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-01-21T01:19:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 kate rhodes <[masukomi@gmail.com](mailto://masukomi@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> 
> Value, worth: I've wondered about this, too. I've tried phrases with
> 
> "mani", e.g. ijo mani --
 value vs. lipu mani --
 money itself, but
> 
> then what to do with "the value of money"?
>> right, and most people find it insulting to have their worth defined
> in terms of money.
>> 
>> 
> Speed: Let's start w/high school physics: Speed = distance/time. So
> 
> "tenpo" comes into play:
> 
>> 
> tomo tawa li kama tawa tomo mi kepeken tenpo lili.
> 
> The car pulled up to my house "using little time".
>> see that doesn't really work for me. There are many things that can be
> done slowly but in a short amount of time.fast tenpo lili la,,,mute X fast, rapidly: tenpo lili la X mute or X mute lontenpo liliI suppose both the mute and the lili are relative and do not reflect on thetotal time involved.slowly .tenpo suli la … lili X slowly: tenpo suli la X lili or X lili lon tenposuliThis has not occurred enough to be an established idiom, but it has no actualrivals.
> 
> Choose: I was translated news items for a while, but then I got hung
> 
> up at election time. How to say "elect" or "vote for" or "choose"?
>> I think i'm with Sonja on this one. I haven't been convinced that
> "seme" doesn't adequately fill the need. Voting and Electing are
> actions more than choices. Voting / Electing is the process you go
> through in order to choose something. So, even if we had "choose" it
> wouldn't serve the same purpose. Voting and choice, in English have
> come to be almost interchangeable but their meaning really isn't. If I
> ask you who you think is the best candidate that's about your choice.
> If I ask you who someone will vote for what you are really saying is
> "which name will you put on your ballot when you go to the polls"
> which, as you can see, is more concerning the process and the ballot
> than actual name, even though all you care about is really the name.
> This isn't to say there isn't value in speaking about the process too.
> It serves, indirectly, to confirm if the person you are talking to
> will actually get off of their butts and take advantage of the
> greatest right many of us have.
>>> lon tenpo Polling la seme li nimi e insa pi lipu sina?
> ni li pona tawa sina?
>> --

> - kate = masukomi
> [http://weblog.masukomi.org/](http://weblog.masukomi.org/)\
>