---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-01-21T19:44:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I do see the problem, but, as I said, the notion here seems to rely on thecontrast between howmuch gets done and the time it takes: you may take what is --
 against some otherstandard --
 along time but you get a whole lot more done in that time than the standard mightexpect --
 so atleast you did things faster than the standard (which is what "fast" meansultimately). I am notinsisting on this, since it opens no paths to the notion of speed itself (norvelocity, noracceleration, nor inertia and so on); what I offer is just the way that othershave solved the oneproblem. Now to consider the next one, hopefully getting in the process a betterway to deal withthe first.---
 kate rhodes <[masukomi@gmail.com](mailto://masukomi@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> On 1/20/07, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

> 
> 
> fast tenpo lili la,,,mute X fast, rapidly: tenpo lili la X mute or Xmute lon tenpo
> lili
> 
> I suppose both the mute and the lili are relative and do not reflect on thetotal time
> involved.
> 
> slowly .tenpo suli la … lili X slowly: tenpo suli la X lili or X lili lontenpo suli
> 
> This has not occurred enough to be an established idiom, but it has noactual rivals.
>> But see, all of these things are talking about variations on time. The
> time you spend going somewhere and the speed you do it at are only
> indirectly related. You're describing the effect of having gone fast.
> It's like describing that there was a hole in the wall after a large
> man passed as a way of saying he was angry.
>> Give me a Ferrari and the autobahn and I can assure you that I will be
> traveling very fast, but also that it will take me a very long time to
> go wherever I'm supposed to be going because I will spend far more
> time than I should just driving random places at high speeds.
>> --

> - kate = masukomi
> [http://weblog.masukomi.org/](http://weblog.masukomi.org/)\
>>>> Yahoo! Groups Links
>>>>