---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-11-30T17:57:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 [MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com) wrote:

> In a message dated 11/29/2006 3:47:13 PM Central Standard Time,
> [clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net) writes:

>>> 
> Oops. Mine might (would?) link the "tawa mi" with "kama" rather than to
> 
> "pona." This is probably
> 
> just an amphiboly. Note that "tawa mi" is surely a unit even in yours,
> 
> rather than " many of my
> 
> moving good times." Another case where we need a rule (or is it just always
> 
> with "tawa" and "lon"
> 
> and probably a few other, the "prepositions"?)
> 
>>> What is the case and what kind of rule do we need?Generally (I think) "tawa" and "lon" (etc.?) in modifier position begin a rightgrouping within agenerally left grouping structure. There are exceptions, e.g. one reading of"ona li pana e tomotawa mi" ("he gave my car" rather than "He gave a building to me" --
 is thatalso "ona li pana mie tomo"?). I don't really think there is a rule; the string just admits of twodifferent parsesand we have to sort it out by context or punting.
>> 
> ---
 John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

> 
>> 
> 
> Oh yeah, "kama" means "cause" rather than "happen" and I suppose is
> 
> subject to the "general
> 
> 
> rule"
> 
> 
> that vt from vi is agentive (so does it work for "sike," too?). Can you
> 
> really say " tenpo pona}
> 
> 
> (tawa mi) mute)" rather than "tenpo pona) mute} (tawa mi))?"
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> ---
 [MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com) wrote:

> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> In a message dated 11/29/2006 11:11:34 AM Central Standard Time,
> 
> 
> 
> [clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net) writes:

> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> 
> It is unclear what A li
> 
> 
> 
> 
> kama e C means, unless it is the normal form for "A comes to C" in a
> 
> 
> 
> 
> locational sense.
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> My list has a vt meaning for "kama" of "bring about, summon".
> 
> 
> 
> ken la jan li ken toki e ni:
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> mi kama e jan pona mi.
> 
> 
> 
> mi kama e tenpo pona tawa mi mute.
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> jan Setepo / stevo
> 
>>> jan Setepo / stevo
>