---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-08-05T15:13:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Francois Schwicker <[bubi4919@yahoo.com](mailto://bubi4919@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

>>> ---
 John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

>> 
> toki pona li pona mute li musi mute. taso temnpo tu
> 
> tu la ona li sama pakala.
> 
>> 
> nanpa wan la toki ali l wile e nimi pi sona ni:
> 
> AFTER/BEFORE; FAR/NEAR; (A)LIVE; PART (OF); SOME;
> 
> TOUCHING (IN CONTACT WITH); TRUTH; MAKE
> 
> (CAUSE/FORCE/BRING ABOUT). toki pona li jo ala. tan
> 
> ni la
> 
> jan li ken ala toki e ali kepeken toki pona.
> 
>> 
> nanpa tu la o lukin e kulupu nimi ni: ona li pana e
> 
> sitelen tawa mi.Good! I hoped someone could come up with these.
> before : tenpo pini la
> After : tenpo ni laNeed the prepositions.
> near : pokaAnd "far" is? Or can "ala" work like "mal-"?
> live : lonReally? In contrast with "moli"?
> part : wanUgh!. This means "whole" according to most lists.
> some : mute liliThat's full-form "some" not just "sm", as far as I can tell.
> touching : pokaNeed something to contrast with "near".
> truth : lonOverworked, needs some contrasts here.
> to cause : kamaWant the agentive form, "faire faire"
> 
>> 
> nanpa tu tu la nimi mute pi toki pona li sama mute.
> 
> nimi ni li kulupu e mute:
> 
> nanpa wan: sli/ale/ala; selo/seli; poka/poki
> 
> nanpa tu: e/en, ko/kon; mu/mun
> 
> nanpa tu wan: nasa/nasin; luka/lukin
> 
> nanpa tu tu: anpa/unpa; ana/pona; kin/ken; ma/mu;
> 
> moli/meli; seli/suli; sewi/suwi
> 
> nanpa luka: poki/toki; seli/sewi; suli/suwi;
> 
> ijo/ilo; laso/waso; lawa/wawa; lupa/luka
> 
> nanpa luka wan: anpa/ante; kili/pilin; moku/noka;
> 
> sewi/suli; selo/suwi
> 
> nanpa luka tu: lili/li, palisa/pali; pipi/pi;
> 
> kalama/kala, ma; mama/ma; nimi/ni, mi
> 
> tan ni la kama sona pi toki pona li pali mute.
>> Those "minimal pairs" don't disturb me. They give the
> language a poetic aspect and suggest strange but funny
> word families as "sel-" for instance, something like :
> "the heat (seli) of someone else's skin (selo)".There needs to be some balance between cute and intelligibility. Here theweight is all on cute,with the result that the words are hard to learn --
 since they all sound alike(especially the spile and the horrific "all = none" mess). It would seem that some minor changeswould keep bothfeatures to an acceptable degree --
 though the jokes might have to change a bit.With only 120words or so to do all the work, they need to be as distinct as possible to allowdoing any work atall and not just degenerating into an undifferentiated mush that could meananything and thusmeans nothing.
> If the words would have been built more scientifically,
> with the greatest possible phonetic distance, the
> language would probably be really tedious to learn.But possible. After four months, I still cannot reliably pull the right memberout of most of theclusters listed and that is with only 120 words to learn (so not too tedious atworst).(Forcomparison, I learned Loglan in a couple of months: about 2500 words --
 but mostdifferentiatedpretty well.) I think the scientific maximum space approach probably would bepretty grim.Happily we are talking about minor changes in a couple dozen words (and adding acouple more?,just differentiating, not shooting for maxima --
 and not changing the other 75percent or so thatare not problematic.
> jan Kanso
>> 
>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> Do You Yahoo!?
> Tired of spam? Yahoo! Mail has the best spam protection around
> [http://mail.yahoo.com](http://mail.yahoo.com)\
>