---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-08-07T19:05:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

>>> ---
 Francois Schwicker <[bubi4919@yahoo.com](mailto://bubi4919@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

>> 
>> 
>> 
> ---
 John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

> 
>> 
> 
> toki pona li pona mute li musi mute. taso temnpo tu
> 
> 
> tu la ona li sama pakala.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> nanpa wan la toki ali l wile e nimi pi sona ni:
> 
> 
> AFTER/BEFORE; FAR/NEAR; (A)LIVE; PART (OF); SOME;
> 
> 
> TOUCHING (IN CONTACT WITH); TRUTH; MAKE
> 
> 
> (CAUSE/FORCE/BRING ABOUT). toki pona li jo ala. tan
> 
> 
> ni la
> 
> 
> jan li ken ala toki e ali kepeken toki pona.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> nanpa tu la o lukin e kulupu nimi ni: ona li pana e
> 
> 
> sitelen tawa mi.
>> Good! I hoped someone could come up with these.
>> 
> before : tenpo pini la
> 
> After : tenpo ni la
>> Need the prepositions.
>> 
> near : poka
>> And "far" is? Or can "ala" work like "mal-"?
>> 
> live : lon
>> Really? In contrast with "moli"?Does "moli" mean "false"? Or "be away from"?
> 
> part : wan
>> Ugh!. This means "whole" according to most lists.
>> 
> some : mute lili
>> That's full-form "some" not just "sm", as far as I can tell.
>> 
> touching : poka
>> Need something to contrast with "near".
>> 
> truth : lon
>> Overworked, needs some contrasts here.
>> 
> to cause : kama
>> Want the agentive form, "faire faire"
> 
> 
>"kama" seems wrong for any sort of causation; it means "happen to" "I happenedto be there" asopposed to "He made me be there." 
> 
> nanpa tu tu la nimi mute pi toki pona li sama mute.
> 
> 
> nimi ni li kulupu e mute:
> 
> 
> nanpa wan: sli/ale/ala; selo/seli; poka/poki
> 
> 
> nanpa tu: e/en, ko/kon; mu/mun
> 
> 
> nanpa tu wan: nasa/nasin; luka/lukin
> 
> 
> nanpa tu tu: anpa/unpa; ana/pona; kin/ken; ma/mu;
> 
> 
> moli/meli; seli/suli; sewi/suwi
> 
> 
> nanpa luka: poki/toki; seli/sewi; suli/suwi;
> 
> 
> ijo/ilo; laso/waso; lawa/wawa; lupa/luka
> 
> 
> nanpa luka wan: anpa/ante; kili/pilin; moku/noka;
> 
> 
> sewi/suli; selo/suwi
> 
> 
> nanpa luka tu: lili/li, palisa/pali; pipi/pi;
> 
> 
> kalama/kala, ma; mama/ma; nimi/ni, mi
> 
> 
> tan ni la kama sona pi toki pona li pali mute.
> 
>> 
> Those "minimal pairs" don't disturb me. They give the
> 
> language a poetic aspect and suggest strange but funny
> 
> word families as "sel-" for instance, something like :
> 
> "the heat (seli) of someone else's skin (selo)".
>> There needs to be some balance between cute and intelligibility. Here theweight is all on
> cute,
> with the result that the words are hard to learn --
 since they all sound alike(especially the s
> pile and the horrific "all = none" mess). It would seem that some minorchanges would keep both
> features to an acceptable degree --
 though the jokes might have to change abit. With only 120
> words or so to do all the work, they need to be as distinct as possible toallow doing any work
> at
> all and not just degenerating into an undifferentiated mush that could meananything and thus
> means nothing.
>> 
> If the words would have been built more scientifically,
> 
> with the greatest possible phonetic distance, the
> 
> language would probably be really tedious to learn.
>> But possible. After four months, I still cannot reliably pull the rightmember out of most of
> the
> clusters listed and that is with only 120 words to learn (so not too tediousat worst).(For
> comparison, I learned Loglan in a couple of months: about 2500 words --
 butmost differentiated
> pretty well.) I think the scientific maximum space approach probably would bepretty grim.
> Happily we are talking about minor changes in a couple dozen words (and addinga couple more?,
> just differentiating, not shooting for maxima --
 and not changing the other 75percent or so
> that
> are not problematic.
> 
> jan Kanso