---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-08-08T21:03:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Francois Schwicker <[bubi4919@yahoo.com](mailto://bubi4919@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

>>> ---
 John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

>>> 
> 
> 
> to cause : kama
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> Want the agentive form, "faire faire"
> 
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> "kama" seems wrong for any sort of causation; it
> 
> means "happen to" "I happened to be there" as
> 
> opposed to "He made me be there."
>> The official words list says : "kama" as transitive
> verb means "to bring about".So it does. The program that made the Eng-
>tp dictionary needs some work, asthere are otheromissions as well. But this is still a very odd usage from a broad point ofview --
 andespecially from a European one;I couldn't find another language where "bringabout" or "make do"was close to "come" or "happen." The trend seems to be toward "make," "do," or"cause," "force."The semantic space of tp is turning out to be even harder that the vocabularyitems.
> "Je me suis fait faire couper les cheveux par ma
> soeur" / "Ich liess mir von meiner Schwester die Haare
> schneiden" / "Mi farigis trancxi mian hararon de mia
> fratino" / "I had my hair cut by my sister" (Is this
> correct English ? )The English is fine, though maybe not quite the same as "I made my sister cut myhair" or even "Ibrought it about that my sister cut my hair" The other examples seem to meanmore "I had my haircut by my sister" and I am not sure how that is related to the other Englishes(assuming thatitcan be confined to the right sense and does not just mean "My hair was cut bymy sister, " as itmight).
> How to translate this into Tokipona ? I see two ways :
> - mi kama e ni : meli pi mama sama li tu e linja lawa
> mi.
> - mi toki e ni tawa meli pi mama sama : "o tu e linja
> lawa mi". ona li pali e ni.
> This second version is very simple and progressive. It
> seems more tokiponese to me than the first.Well, except that tp doesn't handle direct quotes very well and this may nothave been how it wentat all. It doesn't get the "make" part, only the "bring about." I might haveset up a pattern ofher doing it every Tuesday and then ken la mi toki e ni: meli mi pi mama sama \[acuteness I like,by the way\]o pali e ijo pi suno ni. ante la mi pali e ike tawa sina. The firstis a set pattern(What to do with English "that" clauses --
 most of the time) and leaves out allthe details theEnglish does.
> By the way, the same official words list says : "wan"
> as a noun means "unit, element, particle, part" (not :
> the whole).I don't know where the "whole" comes from --
 I didn't start noting who used whatuntil recently.But "whole" does fit in (from the European point of view --
 and tp is a NorternHemispherelanguage, if not specifically non-Oriental) with the other uses more obviously:units, elementsand particle are not conceived of as parts of things (etymologynotwithstanding)and the verb is"unify," "bring together," which is a lot like "make whole." "tu" on the otherhand seems to beexactly about breaking things down into parts (well, not quite, but moore inthat way thananything else. As i say the semantic space is very unfamiliar and not gettingclearer. I thinkthe dictionary will need an encyclodpedia as well to guide Westerners around abit.
> In another message, you asked the difference between
> "li" and "li pi" in a sentence of jan Pije's lessons.
> Here is the way I see it :
>> kili ni li mi : this fruit is me (=I am this fruit)
> kili ni li pi mi : this fruit is mineThe first just seems like something that no one would say --
 outside of a zensession. The otherjust takes over the adjectival use of "mi" and makes it a predicate, just as isdone with most ofthe other adjectivals: jan ni li ike is "That man is bad" just as jan ike ni is"this bad man" Sokili mi is "My fruit," hence "kili li mi" is "Fruit is mine" I gather itdoesn't actually workthat way, but I am having trouble working out 1) why not and 2) how it actuallydoes work. Arethere hidden grammatical categories here that mean that different wortds behavedifferently intransformation? (I hope not --
 the uniformity is one of tp's charms for me.)
> I think, the problem is, you want to translate into
> Tokipona instead of thinking tokiponese. Languages are
> not just communication codes which can be transposed
> from one to another. Languages carry their own
> philosophy, i. e. their own perception of reality. In
> this regard, Tokipona is very peculiar and dealing
> with it is, in my opinion, much more acting on oneself
> than learning just another language !Well, I am less a Whorfian than you, but what you say makes sense. The issuethen is what is thetp philosophy in a very practical sense: how does the language work? Theseexcursions are my wayof getting to that (sorry if they are analytic, that is just my cognition mode.)