---
author: "Jim Henry"
date: 2006-08-08T21:54:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
On 8/8/06, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

> ---
 Francois Schwicker <[bubi4919@yahoo.com](mailto://bubi4919@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

> 
> ---
 John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

> 
> 
> 
> 
> to cause : kama
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> Want the agentive form, "faire faire"
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> "kama" seems wrong for any sort of causation; it
> 
> 
> means "happen to" "I happened to be there" as
> 
> 
> opposed to "He made me be there."
> 
>> 
> The official words list says : "kama" as transitive
> 
> verb means "to bring about".
>> So it does. The program that made the Eng-
>tp dictionary needs some work, asthere are other
> omissions as well. But this is still a very odd usage from a broad point ofview --
 and
> especially from a European one;I couldn't find another language where "bringabout" or "make do"
> was close to "come" or "happen." The trend seems to be toward "make," "do,"or "cause," "force."
> The semantic space of tp is turning out to be even harder that the vocabularyitems.
> 
> How to translate this into Tokipona ? I see two ways :
> 
> - mi kama e ni : meli pi mama sama li tu e linja lawa
> 
> mi.anu:"mi pali e ni: meli pi mama sama....."
> 
> In another message, you asked the difference between
> 
> "li" and "li pi" in a sentence of jan Pije's lessons.
> 
> Here is the way I see it :
> 
>> 
> kili ni li mi : this fruit is me (=I am this fruit)
> 
> kili ni li pi mi : this fruit is mine
>> The first just seems like something that no one would say --
 outside of a zensession. The other
> just takes over the adjectival use of "mi" and makes it a predicate, just asis done with most of
> the other adjectivals: jan ni li ike is "That man is bad" just as jan ike niis "this bad man" So
> kili mi is "My fruit," hence "kili li mi" is "Fruit is mine" I gather itdoesn't actually work
> that way, but I am having trouble working out 1) why not and 2) how itactually does work. Are
> there hidden grammatical categories here that mean that different wortdsbehave differently in
> transformation? (I hope not --
 the uniformity is one of tp's charms for me.)I'm not sure why "kili ni li mi" should not be ambiguousbetween "this fruit is me" and "this fruit is of me/mine",with the latter being the preferred interpretation in mostcontexts.--
Jim Henryhttp://[http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/conlang.htm](http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/conlang.htm)