---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-12-03T14:39:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Well, except that your proposal would increase the similarity ratio by an orderof magnitude, Ithink, even if the half of the list needed were chosen with great care with thisproblem in mind.That aside, your suggestion has a certain charm for the engineers (etc.) amongus.---
 [MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com) wrote:

> One of the things I like least about Toki Pona is the waste in the word
> space. There are only 118 words, yet some words have three syllables and upto
> seven letters.
>> Toki Pona is a minimalist language. Its words should also be minimal.
>> Toki pona has five vowels (a e i o u) and nine consonants (j k l m n p s t
> w).
> No word in Toki Pona need be more than three letters long, using only V (5),
> Vn (5), CV (41, but "ti" should be allowed), CVn (41), and VCV (5\*41=205) word
> patterns. The total number of forms is 297 (5+5+41+41+205). That's 179
> \*more\* than the whole Toki Pona lexicon.
> Limiting words to these five patterns would allow the shape of the word to
> convey some information, so that the grammar words (e.g., a, e, o, en, li pi,)
> and pronouns (mi, sina, ona, ni) could be one-syllable words, and the rest
> two-syllable words.
> Or the commonest words could be given the shortest/simplest forms.
>> An argument against this idea is that so many words would be so similar.
> This is true, they would. But Toki Pona already has many pairs (even triples)of
> words that are very similar phonetically. Lists of such words were sent to
> this list not too long ago. Thus the similarity argument already applies
> \*against\*, not for Toki Pona.
>> jan Setepo / stevo
>