---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-12-03T19:58:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Cute, but tones tend to give a constructed language a very low acceptance score(even among folkwith tone languages) and the packed wordspace (especially where there are onlytonal distinctions)renders it very difficult to use in even very slightly hostile environments.---
 Rick Miller <[rdmiller3@gmail.com](mailto://rdmiller3@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> On 12/3/06, [MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com) <[MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com)\
> wrote:

> 
> One of the things I like least about Toki Pona is the waste in the wordspace. There are only
> 118 words, yet some words have three syllables and up to seven letters.
> 
>> 
> Toki Pona is a minimalist language. Its words should also be minimal.
>> I had similar thoughts, since some long words contain short words,
> which seems troublesome especially in the first syllable where they're
> both identically accented. But I took it a little farther than what
> you described.
>> I trimmed it down to 8 consonants, 5 vowels, and 3 tones. All words
> would be one syllable, strictly CV. That gives 120 possible
> syllables, since I added the "h" consonant, a personal preference, I
> use all 3 tones of "ha" for the TP word "a". I arbitrarily assigned
> "mu" and then assigned the remaining words randomly (using a Perl
> script, only once).
>> So this language of mine is a tonalized knock-off of Toki Pona.
> I call it (in TP), "toki pi kalama ante".
>> Fun stuff. I still haven't tried it out much though.
>> jan Wiko
>