---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-12-03T22:14:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Tones are one of the first things to go in hostile environments (and even infriendly ones, likemusic)--
 even before segmentals. Chinese (and, I suppose Vietnamese, too)survive by building ina high degree (well, not worse than English probably, just different) ofredundancy (spokenChinese regularly uses three or more syllables with approximately the samemeaning to convey oneconcept --
 if you think that Chinese words are monosyllabic; otherwise spokenChinese words arecomposed of several syllables that historically have approximately the samemeaning). Of course,the otherwise packed wordspace creates additional problems (more packed thanChinese by at leastan order of magnitude, though Chinese assigns several unrelated meanings to thesame node,creating new problems) Of course, most of the disapproval of tone languages comefromEuro-Americans, who don't have tone languages and who construct most of theconstructed languages.---
 Rick Miller <[rdmiller3@gmail.com](mailto://rdmiller3@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> On 12/3/06, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

> 
> Cute, but tones tend to give a constructed language a
> 
> very low acceptance score (even among folk
> 
> with tone languages) and the packed wordspace
> 
> (especially where there are only tonal distinctions)
> 
> renders it very difficult to use in even very slightly
> 
> hostile environments.
>> Those are interesting points.
>> I'm not too worried about "acceptance" since I'm only messing with it
> for fun. I've never learned any tonal languages other than a few
> whimpy attempts at Mandarin and Vietnamese, so I thought maybe this
> experiment would help "tune" my brain to listen for tones.
>> That part about it being difficult to use in "hostile environments"
> strikes me as unlikely. Why do you think that is so?
>> jan Wiko
>