---
author: "daraffa"
date: 2009-08-11T19:03:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
The following poem has always spoken to me in times of loss. I have tried totranslate it into tp. Your comments and corrections are welcome. I am stillunsure of when and when not to use the object separator 'e'. I know it is notused after lon or tawa (unless I am moving a rock or some object).Thanks,Davemoli li ala.mi tawa tomo poka.tenpo pini la seme mi mute li lon. mi mute li lon kin.o toki e mi kepeken nimi mi. o toki pona pali e mi. sama tenpo pini la o pana ekon pi pilin pona.o musi. o pali e sinpin pona. o pilin e mi. o toki tawa jan sewi sike mi.o toki e nimi mi lon tomo. o toki pona pali e nimi mi.ali li lon sama. ali li awen. ala li tu.sina lukin ala e mi. o awen e mi lon lawa sina.tenpo lili la mi awen tawa sina. mi lon poka.ali li pona. ala li lon tenpo pini. ala li weka.tenpo kama la ali li pona mute.tenpo kama la mi mute li lon poka jan sewi.Death is nothing at allI have only slipped away into the next room.Whatever we were to each other, that we are still.Call me by my own familiar name. Speak to me in the easy way which you alwaysused. Laugh as we always laughed at the little jokes we enjoyed together.Play, smile, think of me, pray for me.Let my name be the household word that it always was. Let it be spoken withouteffort.Life means all that it ever meant, it is the same as it ever was; there isabsolutely unbroken continuity.Why should I be out of your mind because I am out of your sight?I am but waiting for you, for an interval, somewhere very near just around thecorner.All is well. Nothing is past, nothing is lost.One brief moment and all will be as it was before – only better, infinitelyhappier and forever.We will all be one together with God.