---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2009-08-15T23:46:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
ni li pona. mi sitelen anpa kin\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_From: salikh.zakirov <[salikh@gmail.com](mailto://salikh@gmail.com)\
>To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent): Friday, August 14, 2009 12:03:00 AMSubject: \[tokipona\] Re: Dave's writing exercises #4Hi, Dave!I have tried to translate your toki pona poem translation back toEnglish \*before\* looking at the English original.Sorry if my toki pona competency is not high enough to get to thehidden meaning, but I hope you find it helpful.
> moli li ala.Death is nothing.
> mi tawa tomo poka.I go to the near building (room?).
> tenpo pini la seme mi mute li lon.In the past, what mine (multiple my things) were.(\* This feels a little bit ungrammatic, as there is no question.Or where you intending "what of us" or something like that? \*)\*ken la ona li wile e kulupu 'pi mi mute' - looking for general "whatever"rather than question "what" (some ancient proto Indo-European has a lot toanswer for). Incidentally, I suspect he really means 'mi tu'
> mi mute li lon kin.We exist indeed.
> o toki e mi kepeken nimi mi.Please talk to me my name.(\* I think you were trying to say "please call me by my name",and if that's true, "o nimi e mi kepeken nimi mi" seems a bit better \*)\*Real problems here: I guess "talk to me" is 'toki tawa mi' but 'nlml' as atransitive verb comes up short: is "name X 'Y'" 'nimi e nimi 'Y' tawa X' or'nimi 'Y' e X'. Good cases can be made either way and I can't find an example.
> o toki pona pali e mi.Report to me.(\* or is that something like "recite to me"? \*)\*I don't get this one either.
> sama tenpo pini la o pana e kon pi pilin pona.In the moment of past, give me an air of good feeling!\*Don't forget 'sama': "as in the past". 'kon pi pilin pona' has been used for"laugh".
> o musi. o pali e sinpin pona.Enjoy yourself! Make a good face.\*"Smile"
> o pilin e mi.Feel me! (\* or "Think of me!" ?\*)\*Again, How do we say that latter?
> o toki tawa jan sewi sike mi.Talk to my round god!(\* Sorry, I could not get what "round god" means \*)\*Trying to solve the "talk about" problem with the English pattern, i.e., 'sike'is a preposition here.
> o toki e nimi mi lon tomo.Please tell my name in the house.
> o toki pona pali e nimi mi.Please recite my name.
> ali li lon sama. ali li awen. ala li tu.Everything is the same. Everything stays. Nothing splits.(\* Or was that "nothing changes" intended? In that case, how about"ala li kama ante"? \*)\*Nice.
> sina lukin ala e mi. o awen e mi lon lawa sina.You don't look at me. Please remember me.\*Probably "see"
> tenpo lili la mi awen tawa sina.(\* or is that "I will prevent you from moving" i.e. "I willbind/stop/set at rest you"?If so, how about "mi awen e tawa sina" or "mi awen tawa e sina"?Anyway, it is entirely unclear to me if it is reasonable to use "tawa"as modifier in places where it looks like a preposition and requirereader to deduce from context."e" is binding stronger than "tawa", so using "e" would resolve theparsing ambiguity \*)\*I gather 'tawa' is a preposition here "waiting for you." This ambiguity, with'tawa' at the end of objects is ever present.
> mi lon poka.I am near.
> ali li pona. ala li lon tenpo pini. ala li weka.Everything is okay. Nothing is in the past. Nothing will leave.
> tenpo kama la ali li pona mute.Everything will get much better.
> tenpo kama la mi mute li lon poka jan sewi.We all will come to god.\*Just "be with'-----
Now that I have completed line by line translation, I will try torephrase the whole passage as far as my understanding permits.Death is nothing.I go to the nearby building.In the past, I had many things. We existed indeed.Please call me by my name. Recite to me.In the moment of past, give me an air of good feeling!Enjoy yourself! Smile! Think about me! Talk to my round god!Please tell my name in the house. Please recite my name.Everything is the same. Everything stays. Nothing splits.You don't look at me. Please remember me.Soon I will put you to rest. I am near.Everything is okay. Nothing is in the past. Nothing will leave.Everything will get much better.We all will come to god.----
Now comes the moment for me to look at the English originaland enjoy a rare moment of comprehension :)Wow! At least I was close with "pray" :)Thank for the interesting translation!Salikh.\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]