---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-04-29T17:58:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Marcos CRUZ <[tokipona@alinome.net](mailto://tokipona@alinome.net)\
> wrote:

> 
> 
> "pola pilin" = good<feeling = bona<sento
> 
> 
> "pona sijelo" = good<body = bona<korpo
>> 
> ne bona Esperanto sed "pona pilin",
> 
> "bona sijelo" = "boni senton", "boni korpon" de "jan li pona e
> 
> pilin", "jan li pona e sijelo" toki pi nimi "good" li pakala.
>> mi sona e ni ali. mi sona e ni: kulupu nimi "jan pona sijelo" tawa
> tan kulupu nimi "jan li pona e sijelo". mi sona e ni kin: lon kulupu
> nimi ni la, nimi "pona" li sama ala "good" anu "bona".
>> (I wrote "good" and "bona" there to avoid writing all the meanings
> and uses of "pona".)
>> 
> 
> toki ni "jan pi pona pilin pona" li ike tawa mi tan ni:
> 
> 
> jan pi pona pilin pona = jan<((pona<pilin)<pona)
>> 
> toki Inli la the right end of right groupings is unmarked
> 
> ("context will tell" --
 pfui!), so
> 
> (jan (pona <pilin))< pona is also possible
> 
> (and makes more sense here (context really does help!)
>> 
> 
> mi pilin e ni: ni li pona:
> 
> 
> A B C pi D E F = ((A<B)<C)<((D<E)<F))
> 
> 
> mi pilin e ni: ni li ike:
> 
> 
> A B C pi D E F = (((A<B)<C)<(D<E))<F
>> 
> Icky, but also legitimate, alas.
>> I read that "pi" is used with at least two words after it, that is
> logical, but I never read about what happens with the third word. I
> supposed that it modified the group \*after\* "pi" in the usual way
> (that's what looks more natural to me), but you say that it also can
> modify the whole sentence... So now I understand the rule: there's no
> rule! There's no way to know, where the "pi" grouping ends... :-(That seems to be the case. If "pi" were definitively two placed, the we wouldhave to allow "pipi" to deal with X((AB)C), but we clearly don't allow that, so "pi" is nottwo-placed. "Pi" marksthe start of a right grouping, but there is no mark for its end --
 or, moreaccurately, when thenext right idtems modifies all that goes before and when it modifies only therightly groupedpart. Loglan has this problem for a while but eventually solved it (and I can'tremember how atthe moment: a RHE marker or a fixed distance with permitted repetitions).
> Thanks for the help.I'm taking this as not ironic.
> Anyway, my suspect is right, isn't it? These translations in the
> official page are wrong:
>> jan pi pona pilin = good psychotherapist = lerta psikoterapiisto
> jan pi pona sijelo = good doctor, healer = efika kuracisto
>> They should be:
>> jan pi pona pilin = psychotherapist = psikoterapiisto
> jan pi pona sijelo = doctor, healer = kuracistoYes, although I think the idea was about REALLY imroving one's body or mind andonly claiming tobut really only being a theoretician. "Doctor" at least ahs the alternateexpression "jan sonasijelo" while "jan sona pilin" is glossed "psychologist."
>> 
> ken la sina sona e nimi ni: mi ken pali e ni kepeken nasin seme
> 
> An argument for topo, the portmanteaux version of the future
> tp? "janposi pona"
> 
>(assuming these words make it through the refining).
>> I'm afraid that's too high level (or too idiomatic) English for me.
> The dictionary helps me a bit about "portmanteaux":
>> portmanteaux =?? portmanteau = "A large leather suitcase that opens
> into two hinged compartments."
>> But not about topo:
>> topo =?? topos = "A traditional theme or motif; a literary
> convention."Sorry about that. The idea is that one way that tp might expand within itsbasic confines wouldbe to collapse idiomatic expressions into new words, more or less on the patternof getting "Nazi"from "National Socialist" (it works better in German) or "sudoku" from whateverthe nine-syllableoriginal is, basically acronyms that use the whole first syllable. Collapsingof this sort iscalled (after Lewis Carroll, I think) "portmanteau" (folds two sides togetherlike a suitcase,more or less): the classic being "chortle" from "chuckle" and "snort" for alaugh through thenose (less rule governed that the hypthetical rule here). "Topo" would be thetoki pona that hadsuch a rule (which requires, btw, changing the form of some words).
>>> jan Mako
>> --

> [http://alinome.net](http://alinome.net)\
>>