---
author: "Viktoro"
date: 2002-10-10T23:45:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In tokipona@y..., "yves\_prudhomme" <yves\_prudhomme@y...
> wrote:

> ---
 In tokipona@y..., "Sonja Elen Kisa" <marraskuu@s...
> wrote:

>> 
> Seems to work fine and sounds very cute. But the changes arevery
> 
> significant!! People who already speak Toki Pona would have to
> 
> retrain their Toki Pona ears and tongues (mute
>mota). I'm notsure
> if
> 
> that is a good idea after all.
>> Personally, I think it's a \_terrible\_ idea. Here's why:
>As a person with an academic interest in Toki Pona, I don't thinkit's a "terrible" idea to switch from 5 vowels to 3 vowels. With 3vowels, Toki Pona would ring more true to the conceptof "Minimalism," a central theme. I don't think it's too late tochange. There are many years ahead and many more people will comeby with an interest in such a language. I think the 3-vowel systemis a GREAT improvement in the language's phonology... If a personhas seen the elegance of the trivocalic essence in languages likeQuechua (Peru) and Cebuano (Philippines), then one would reallyappreciate that simplicity. I think 3 is CUTER than 5! People willsay, "Hey, this language has only three vowels... That's nifty!"But if you have five, people will think, "Hey, five vowels just likeSpanish... How common!"I don't think this is like the Esperanto-Ido shift, but more like aLoglan-Lojban shift in which the sequel would be more improved andmore popular.--
Viktorohttp://planetvix.tripod.com