---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-05-16T01:37:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 [MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com) wrote:

> In a message dated 5/15/2007 6:19:28 PM Central Daylight Time,
> [galactonerd@yahoo.com](mailto://galactonerd@yahoo.com) writes:

>>> 
> Some of us are having trouble with just using the words "soweli" and
> 
> "akesi" for animals instead of specifying them; every once in a while,
> 
> a thread about it will pop up. But I notice this problem never arises
> 
> with "waso" and "kala." I think this is because birds all have the
> 
> same basic shape, as do fish, and so we have a reasonably accurate
> 
> picture in our minds when we hear those words. But if I hear the word
> 
> "soweli," I don't know what to picture--
is it "soweli pi linja uta"
> 
> (cat), "soweli jan" (monkey/ape), "soweli pi palisa lawa" (elephant),
> 
> or something else entirely? Similarly, if I hear "akesi," I don't
> 
> know what to picture; is it "akesi palisa" (snake), "akesi poki"
> 
> (turtle), "akesi telo" (frog or other amphibian), or something else
> 
> entirely?
> 
>> 
> This is why some of us feel the need to specify what kind of animal
> 
> something is. If I say "dog," you have a reasonably accurate picture,
> 
> as all dogs have the same basic shape. But the word "soweli" doesn't
> 
> give that.
> 
>>> Aha! A Sapir-Whorf effect!
> What do you think of when you hear the word "animal"? It's even less
> specific than either "soweli" or "akesi".I do wish someone would come up with a clear (and, preferably, testable)specification of what theHell this means (It would be nice if it had something to do with either Sapiror Whorf, too.Nothing from voacabulary does.)