---
author: "galactonerd"
date: 2008-07-16T22:27:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "Rick Miller" <rdmiller3@...
> wrote:

>> On Wed, Jul 16, 2008 at 9:13 AM, Sam Chapman <sam\_acw@...
> wrote:

> 
> mi lukin e lupa. mi lukin e jan lili mute, jan li musi li tokisuli.
>> "mi lukin e lupa."
> "I see a hole."
> If you're looking \*through\* a door or window, I'm wondering whyyou're
> bothering to mention it. Is it important? Could you just say what
> you see without mentioning the opening and still get basically the
> same story?Or what about "mi lukin lon lupa?"
> "mi lukin e jan lili mute. ni li musi li toki suli."
>> The word "jan" isn't a pronoun so you would use "ni".I thought it was supposed to be "ona?" "mi lukin e jan lili mute.ona li musi li toki suli."
> Now that I think about it, I'm starting to wonder why you even haveto
> mention the fact that you \*see\* these people. Why not just say what
> they did? It should be self-evident that you either saw it or heard
> about it somehow, and those details probably won't matter to your
> audience.Sometimes it's important for the listener to know whether you sawsomething or heard about it from someone else; in fact, I think thisis why some languages use evidential markers.
> 
> ale li pona, mi tawa
>> As I learned it, "ale" is depreciated because it sounds too close to
> "ala". "ali" is the preferred word. (I could be wrong.)I've seen both used; in fact, I've seen "ale" more than "ali."
> I'm still curious what you were trying to say with "toki suli".I understood it to mean "to speak loudly."jan Sosuwa