---
author: "Jim Henry"
date: 2008-07-18T02:49:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
On Thu, Jul 17, 2008 at 1:18 AM, Sam Chapman <[sam_acw@yahoo.co.uk](mailto://sam_acw@yahoo.co.uk)\
> wrote:

> 1st sentence was to be I'm looking through a window. I think mi lukin lon
> lupa is clearer. I was originally going to put "tomo oko" for window. As I'm
> learning Polish Oko is eye in this language and okno window so there is a
> link between them. I doubted it would be clear to anyone else though!toki "tomo oko" li pona tawa mi. mi kepeken e nimi sama lontoki sin mi:In my personal conlang gjâ-zym-byn, I use a very similar compound word for"window": vě'ty-rĭm, "doorway-vision". (Morpheme order in compoundsis head-modifier, same as in TP.)
> The second sentence seems ok because I copied it, so onto the third. As you
> said, I need to use ona as the pronoun. I had intended it to mean "are
> talking loudly". Maybe if it was "ona li kamala li toki suli" it would be
> clearer."kalama"but yes, that sounds clearer.
> The whole story, as was said earlier could be minimised to
>> One li toki li musiona
>> but that isn't a lot of practice for me so now the full, revised version
>> mi lukin lon lupa. mi lukin e jan lili muti. ona li musi. ona li kamala li
> toki suli.muteOtherwise good.
> as far as ali/ale the dictionary I used gave both as correct.Yes, both are correct. In a corpus analysis I did about a year ago(mostly of email messages copied from this mailing list), they werealmost equally frequent: 0.3863% 40 ali 0.3670% 38 ale(The corpus was 10354 words; "ali" occurred 40 times,and "ale" 38 times. I wonder if I would get different resultsif I analyzed a corpus consisting entirely of messages fromthe last year or two, instead of stuff spread out over five yearsor so.)--
Jim Henryhttp://[http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/conlang/fluency-survey.htmlConlang](http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/conlang/fluency-survey.htmlConlang) fluency survey --
 there's still time to participate beforeI analyze the results and write the article