---
author: "Francois Schwicker"
date: 2006-05-30T22:36:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Hello Siwen,In my opinion, you think too complicated. It's mucheasier than this."la" just means : "the next word is the subject of theverb""tan" is a noun meaning "reason". But it is apreposition meaning "because", too."tan ni" : "because of this" = "that's why""mi kepeken e kasi ike. mi pilin ike tan ni" and"mi kepeken e kasi ike. tan ni la mi pilin ike." These two sentences basically mean the same. But inthe second sentence, the stress is on the causalrelation. mi kepeken e kasi ike. tan ni la mi pilin ike. I smoke. That's why I feel bad. mi pilin ike. tan ni la mi kepeken e kasi ike. I feel bad. That's why I smoke.mi wile e ni : toki mi li pana e sona pona tawa sina !pona. mi tawa. o lape pona !jan Kanso (tenpo pini lili la mi pini moku e kon pikasi jaki)---
 jan Siwen <[siphersh@daath.hu](mailto://siphersh@daath.hu)\
> wrote:

> I have read some earlier posts about 
>>toki lili
> "tan ni la"<<, and
> I am not entirely sure that I get it right. My best
> guess is as
> follows.
>> mi pilin ike tan ni: mi kepeken e kasi ike. mi pilin
> ike tan kasi.
> I feel sick because I smoke. I feel sick because of
> the tobacco
> plant.
>> mi kepeken e kasi ike. ni li kama e ni: mi pilin
> ike.
> I smoke, therefore I feel sick.
>> So I can say it both ways, and say it kinda
> Tokiponish, right? But
> this one:
>> mi kepeken e kasi ike. tan ni la mi pilin ike.
>> This does not quite mean what most people seem to
> think it means if
> I am getting this right. Literally it means "under
> the condition of
> the reason of this". It is referring to a common
> cause, not causal
> relationship. So I could just as well say
>> mi pilin ike. tan ni la mi kepeken e kasi ike.
>> and say exactly the same as in the last sentence.
>> As a modifier, "tan ni" means "this as a reason".
> "Because of this".
> mi moku tan sina. But when it stands alone, it means
> "the reason /
> cause / source of this". Right?
>>>>>\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Do You Yahoo!?Tired of spam? Yahoo! Mail has the best spam protection aroundhttp://mail.yahoo.com