---
author: "Marcos CRUZ"
date: 2007-04-18T11:10:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\
> There are 2 factions in this community.
> - The first faction wants simplify toki pona,
> and use it as language for thinking.
> - The second faction wants convert toki pona
> to convenient tool for comunication.
> The goals of this factions are opposite.Well, I'm not sure I really understand what you mean: How would it bepossible to communicate something without thinking? How a tool can beconvenient for communication if it can't express your thoughts? (I'mnot talking about this language right now, but in general).
> Supporters of simplification overpower the opponents in thiscommunity.Fine. In languages, as in life, simplification is more powerful thancomplexity. But one of the most important aspects of simplificationis regularity. Another one is the reason behind a rule. If you dont'tknow the reason, you can't obey the rule and there can not beregularity... "Simplification" does not mean: "it's just this way,don't think about it, don't worry, it doesn't matter".
> I propose to split toki pona in 2 branches (or dialects):
> branch for thinking and branch for comunication.Maybe something like this?:toki pona pilin: for thinkers that has nothing to communicatetoki pona toki: for communicative people that has nothing to thinkaboutIt would be a difficult choice, really :-DDD
> And I propose to organise another community for people
> who want to use toki pona for contacts with other people.ni li kulupu sin pi toki pona toki anu seme?ni li kulupu sin pi toki pona pilin anu seme?
> It would be possible making good number system and adding some new
> words and grammatical structures in such new community.I really don't understand what you mean... Now you say a good numbersystem and some new words would be helpful for using Toki Pona forcontacts with other people, don't you? So you think simplificationhelps to keep Toki Pona as a tool just for personal thinking, don'tyou? And so, there's no need to do any kind of "fine-tune" or"theorical rules" or "grammatical thinking" because the language hasno need to be a communication tool?I'm really not sure, how many of your remarks are only ironic, andwhat's your serious opinion.Anyway: I think things are much simpler: Toki Pona is so interesting(and not tested enough yet), that many questions arises out of itwhen people wish to learn it --
 not like a parrot, but trying to findand understand its "language spirit" instead. I am such people :-)Interesting debate indeed (I'm afraid my English constraints myexpressions... Esperante mi debatus tre pli bone!)jan Mako, jan pona--
[http://alinome.net](http://alinome.net)