---
author: "Jim Henry"
date: 2004-08-06T14:29:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
jan Kowi li toki:
>Sounds good. That would help to avoid any chances of ambiguity. I
>suppose the next step is to start designing glyphs. Anyone got any
>ideas on what they should look like? It would also be ideal if thereMaybe curving shapes for the continuants, angled shapes for the stops.
> hmm... that seems to go out of order to me. Start in the middle,
> then go to the top, then the bottom. I'd prefer consonant on top,
> vowel middle, final n bottom. Or consonant upper left, vowel upper
> right, final n bottom.ni li lon. sina sona pona.jan Philip Newton toki:
>Or we could use a Wiki where anyone can edit pages in order to collaborate.
>Possible even (ab)use the Toki Pona Wikipedia for this - or someone's
>user pages.ni li ike tawa mi. Wikipesija kin li pona. taso jan li wile alakepeken ona lon pali ni.
>Not really what Wikipedia is meant for, but then the TP WP is a bit
>unorthodox in several ways....ni li lon. Wikipesija li nasa lukin sinpin Wikipedia anu Vikipedio.jan Jonathon li toki:
>Glyphs for numerals, and punctuation need to be added to the list of
>glyphs to create.mi mute wile ala wile sitelen lili nanpa tu wan? (ala, wan, tu)anu tu tu? (ala, wan, tu, luka)
>What punctuation is needed?mi kan ala toki e ni kepeken toki pona. ike. taso:As long as we're starting from scratch on the script,I think we should be imaginative about punctuation as well.For instance, I'd like to see sentences marked at thebeginning for sentence type (declarative, exclamatoryimperative, interrogative, ...) but always terminatedby the same character. Maybe have another characterto terminate paragraphs or utterances?For instance (I use a system like this for myown conlang {gjax zym byn}):mi pilin pona. \[declarative\]\*ni li pona mute. \[exclamatory\]!o moli ala e mi. \[imperative\]?sina wile ala wile e telo nasa. \[interrogative\]We might also want to come up with our ownquotation marks, maybe multiple onesfor different kinds of quotation(quoting an utterance, quoting a book/movie/etc. title,quoting a foreign word or name...).Also, maybe we should rethink how we use intra-sentencepunctuation - corresponding to the comma, semicolon,dash and colon of English.Maybe one character to follow "la";another to precede or follow conjunctions"anu" or "en"...jan "Philip Newton" li toki:
>On Thu, 05 Aug 2004 21:24:47 -0000, Corey <[n649po@yahoo.com](mailto://n649po@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

>> That could involve creating lots more glyphs.
>Not really, since Toki Pona syllables are either V, CV, or CVn - so
>you only need vowel glyphs (for word-initial stand-alone vowels),
>consonant glyphs (for when you're starting a CV or CVn syllable), CV
>glyphs, and CVn glyphs. Not really all that many.5 + 9 + 1 + 41 + 5 + 41 = 102 glphs needed for the fontBut only 15 symbols for a human to learn, plus a couple of rulesfor combining them.jan Goren li toki:
>There should be a special marker for "foreign" words.ni li pona tawa mi.Yes, as we won't have captial/lowercase distinction we needanother way to mark foreign words and names.Maybe just an initial punctuation mark, or maybe a circumfixingpair like quotation marks.jan Kowi li toki:
>So come on over and take a look! The adress is
>www.tokipona.bravehost.com.pona!- Jim HenryBook review weblog: [http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/review/log.htm](http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/review/log.htm)