---
author: "Jim Henry"
date: 2004-08-09T15:07:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
jan Kowi li toki:
>> quotation marks, maybe multiple ones
>> for different kinds of quotation
>> (quoting an utterance, quoting a book/movie/etc. title,
>> quoting a foreign word or name...).
>Good idea for any conlang but Toki Pona. Remember, simplicity! :)So, do you want to use the same marking for all those?Something like this:jan "kowi" li toki e ni: "jan li wile toki pona. sitelen lili mute li ike."jan "amelija" li toki e toki awen "toki pi jan sin".
>> Also, maybe we should rethink how we use intra-sentence
>> punctuation - corresponding to the comma, semicolon,
>> dash and colon of English.
>As far as I know, no intra-sentence punctuation is necessary or used
>in TP.Comma and colon are sometimes used, besidesquotations marks and capitalization.I find longish sentences easier to read if commas are usedto mark pauses, as after "la".
>> Yes, as we won't have captial/lowercase distinction we need
>> another way to mark foreign words and names.
>> Maybe just an initial punctuation mark, or maybe a circumfixing
>> pair like quotation marks.
>I think it should be either a separate glyph before the word or a
>simple diacritic attatched to the syllable. However, I think that
>could become confusing so I'd prefer to go with the first method.Would you want to use the same glyph to mark the start of a title of a work,or a quoted utterance? if so, would you use the same glyph(or the same glyph flipped or rotated?) to mark the end of it?- Jim HenryBook review weblog: [http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/review/log.htm](http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/review/log.htm)