---
author: "Josan Kapo"
date: 2007-09-26T20:32:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\
>>>I'm not sure that that is how "la" phrases work, but it is handy "For yourwriting "Gripes""--
I think you're right. I probably should have broken it up ( mi lukin esitelen Gripes. Mipilin e ni: … )
>>>This "in toki pona" is suspect, though "kepeken" doesn't work either.Further,since it attachedto a noun, not a sentence or verbm it probably just should be "pi."--
Is this suspect because I shouldn't be adding prepositional phrases to the endofsentences, or because toki pona isn't something one can get in? I feel like I'drather besaying : 3-syllable words sound good (in toki pona). not (of toki pona). Although maybethe best is: nimi pi kalama tu wan pi toki pona li kalama musi.
>>>"lon monsi" --
 Lesson 7 says "monsi" etc. are not prepositions, but require"lon." This is undersome pressure to change but is official for now.ike mi. in this case is lon OK ? (tenpo kama la, sina wile kepeken e nimi "li"lon monsikulupu nimi "mi mute" anu "sina mute")
>>>The "tenpo ... kama ..." for "if .. then..." is old fashioned though may bemaking a comeback. Inany case, if you use it, you don't put "la" at the end of the antecedent.OK, I see the message I was working from is from 2002 (message #54)" tenpo la …, kama la … = if …, then …"Is there a preferred way to make an if/then statement now?
>>>Not really. A beast used for animal food, the lead beast of a big plant, abeast with a stong cryand one with yellow hair?sina sona e ona! (taso mi pakala. Soweli ni li moku e soweli ante. Soweli anteli moku ala eona).Sina pali li pona-jan Josan---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), John E Clifford <clifford-j@...
> wrote:

>>> ---
 Josan Kapo <mail@...
> wrote:

>> 
> jan James o! toki!
> 
> toki pona li musi kin. tenpo pini la mi lukin e kulupu Olan, e toki wileni. pona la onali
> 
> wile la sina kama sona e toki pona.
> 
>> 
> mi lukin e lipu pona sina. tawa sitelen sina Gripes la, mi pilin e ni:
>> I'm not sure that that is how "la" phrases work, but it is handy "For yourwriting"Gripes""
>> 
> 1. nimi pi kalama lili tu wan li kalama pona lon toki pona. kin la kalamapi toki Inli liante.
>> This "in toki pona" is suspect, though "kepeken" doesn't work either. Further, since itattached
> to a noun, not a sentence or verbm it probably just should be "pi."
>> 
> taso lon toki pona la nimi ni li suwi, li sama kalama musi.
>> Again, "lon" is suspect; in this case, maybe just "toki pona la" would do.
>> 
> 2. tenpo kama la, sina wile kepeken e nimi "li" monsi kulupu nimi "mi mute"anu "sina
> 
> mute."
>> "lon monsi" --
 Lesson 7 says "monsi" etc. are not prepositions, but require"lon." This isunder
> some pressure to change but is official for now.
>> mi pona. sina pona. taso mi en sina li mute. o lukin e ni: mi mute lape ( Imake a
> 
> lot of sleep / I multiply sleep ?) mi mute li lape (we sleep). (ken la onali pona kin. taso
> 
> nimi ona li wile e nimi "li".)
> 
> 3. tenpo sina wile toki e ijo suli la kama la sina wile kepeken e nimi \`pi.'
>> The "tenpo ... kama ..." for "if .. then..." is old fashioned though may bemaking acomeback. In
> any case, if you use it, you don't put "la" at the end of the antecedent. And"pi" is notjust
> for long ecpressions but for right-grouping ones, that is, more than one wordadded asa block to
> modify the preceding.
> o lukin e ni:
> 
> mi pilin e soweli. soweli ni li soweli pi moku soweli, li soweli lawa pikasi suli, li sowelipi
> 
>> 
> mu wawa, li soweli pi linja lawa pi mute jelo. sina sona ala sona e sowelini?
>> Not really. A beast used for animal food, the lead beast of a big plant, abeast with astong cry
> and one with yellow hair?
>> 
> o kama pona! o pali pona! o jo musi!
> 
>> 
> jan Josan
> 
>> 
> ---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "James Chandler" <idojc@
> wrote:

> 
> 
>> 
> 
> suno pona!
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> mi kama sona e Toki Pona tan ni: jan mute pi kulupu Olan (Auxlang) tokiwile
> 
> 
> (voted) tawa Toki Pona lon musi lon kulupu ni.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> tenpo ni la mi jo e sitelen pi tenpu suno (sitelen pi tenpo mute, diary,
> 
> 
> blog) lon lipu Poke (Blogger).
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> kama pona!
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> [http://lltpblog.blogspot.com](http://lltpblog.blogspot.com)\
> 
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>>