---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-09-27T13:04:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Matthew Martin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> wrote:

> 
>soweli ni li soweli pi moku soweli, li soweli lawa pi kasi suli, li soweli pi
> 
> mu wawa, li soweli pi linja lawa pi mute jelo.
>> I suspect John did suspect:Well, yes, but ...
> soweli pi moku soweli --
 carnivore"moku soweli" could mean "eater of animals" but that construction is fairly rarein usage so far.It could also mean "animal as food". but, though it is used once this way in thelesson, thisusage has been rejected. So, "food for animals" is by far the most likelyreading. The clearestway to say "is a carnivore" is "li moku e soweli."
> lawa pi kasi suli --
 king of the jungleAr best this means "King of the trees" which is a very different notion (it isabout a tree,probably). "Jungle" is probably some variant on "ma pi kasi suli", "forest"(about the territory--
 as appropriate for kings --
 not about the trees). Besides, lions are notforest beasts butplains ones, as witness their coats, self tawny to blemd in a land with fewshadows, unlike forestdwellers, who have mixed tawny and black to fit into the dappled forest view(tigers, leopards,jaguars, etc.)
> soweli pi mu wawa --
 roarsThis isn't too bad. but again "li mu wawa" is clearer.
> soweli pi linja lawa pi mute jelo--
 yellow mane"mute jelo" is just obscure "yellow quantity;" maybe linja lawa jelo mute "a lotof yellow hair."And, of course, the mane is very little on the head, mainly on the neck andsomwewhat on theshoulders and chest.
> but in another cultural context you could guess:
>> soweli pi moku soweli --
 eats animal foodNote that the English is ambiguous here, too.
> lawa pi kasi suli --
 head of the top of treesNot "tops of trees" exactly (that is more likely "lawa")
> soweli pi mu wawa --
 loud & talkativeAlthough "mu mute" is better for "talkative"
> soweli pi linja lawa pi mute jelo--
 yellow fur on head
>> [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capuchin_monkey](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capuchin_monkey)\
>> jan Matthew Martin
>