---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-09-27T15:19:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Josan Kapo <[mail@jonathangabel.com](mailto://mail@jonathangabel.com)\
> wrote:

> 
>>>I'm not sure that that is how "la" phrases work, but it is handy "For your
> writing "Gripes""
>> --
I think you're right. I probably should have broken it up ( mi lukin esitelen Gripes. Mi
> pilin e ni: … )Clearly no problem.
>> 
>>>This "in toki pona" is suspect, though "kepeken" doesn't work either.Further,
> since it attached
> to a noun, not a sentence or verbm it probably just should be "pi."
>> --
Is this suspect because I shouldn't be adding prepositional phrases to theend of
> sentences, or because toki pona isn't something one can get in? I feel likeI'd rather be
> saying : 3-syllable words sound good (in toki pona). not (of toki pona). Although maybe
> the best is: nimi pi kalama tu wan pi toki pona li kalama musi.Well, at the end of sentences is the only place that prepositional phrases areallowed apparently(oh, and maybe in conditions). The problem is whether "lon" is what is wantedwhen talking aboutwhat a language does. We know that "talking in a language" uses "kepeken" but"this happens in alanguage" seems to be different, but also not obviously a case of inness.
>> 
>>>"lon monsi" --
 Lesson 7 says "monsi" etc. are not prepositions, but require
> "lon." This is under
> some pressure to change but is official for now.
>> ike mi. in this case is lon OK ? (tenpo kama la, sina wile kepeken e nimi"li" lon monsi
> kulupu nimi "mi mute" anu "sina mute")This is a standard use of "lon" and I think that talking about "behind in thelinear or ofsentences is proper.
>> 
>>>The "tenpo ... kama ..." for "if .. then..." is old fashioned though may be
> making a comeback. In
> any case, if you use it, you don't put "la" at the end of the antecedent.
>> OK, I see the message I was working from is from 2002 (message #54)
> " tenpo la …, kama la … = if …, then …"
> Is there a preferred way to make an if/then statement now?Instead of "tenpo la P, kama la Q, use P la Q. The "tenpo ... kama ..." had theadditional problemof being strictly false even when the conditional was true. But, with differentconditions, theold conditional has several advantages, chiefly getting rid of a major recursionin the grammar.
>> 
>>>Not really. A beast used for animal food, the lead beast of a big plant, a
> beast with a stong cry
> and one with yellow hair?
>> sina sona e ona! (taso mi pakala. Soweli ni li moku e soweli ante. Soweliante li moku ala e
> ona).
>> Sina pali li pona-jan Josan
>>> ---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), John E Clifford <clifford-j@...
> wrote:

> 
>> 
>> 
> ---
 Josan Kapo <mail@...
> wrote:

> 
>> 
> 
> jan James o! toki!
> 
> 
> toki pona li musi kin. tenpo pini la mi lukin e kulupu Olan, e toki wileni. pona la ona
> li
> 
> 
> wile la sina kama sona e toki pona.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> mi lukin e lipu pona sina. tawa sitelen sina Gripes la, mi pilin e ni:
> 
>> 
> I'm not sure that that is how "la" phrases work, but it is handy "For yourwriting
> "Gripes""
> 
>> 
> 
> 1. nimi pi kalama lili tu wan li kalama pona lon toki pona. kin la kalamapi toki Inli li
> ante.
> 
>> 
> This "in toki pona" is suspect, though "kepeken" doesn't work either. Further, since it
> attached
> 
> to a noun, not a sentence or verbm it probably just should be "pi."
> 
>> 
> 
> taso lon toki pona la nimi ni li suwi, li sama kalama musi.
> 
>> 
> Again, "lon" is suspect; in this case, maybe just "toki pona la" would do.
> 
>> 
> 
> 2. tenpo kama la, sina wile kepeken e nimi "li" monsi kulupu nimi "mimute" anu "sina
> 
> 
> mute."
> 
>> 
> "lon monsi" --
 Lesson 7 says "monsi" etc. are not prepositions, but require"lon." This is
> under
> 
> some pressure to change but is official for now.
> 
>> 
> mi pona. sina pona. taso mi en sina li mute. o lukin e ni: mi mute lape (I make a
> 
> 
> lot of sleep / I multiply sleep ?) mi mute li lape (we sleep). (ken la onali pona kin. taso
>> 
> 
> nimi ona li wile e nimi "li".)
> 
> 
> 3. tenpo sina wile toki e ijo suli la kama la sina wile kepeken e nimi\`pi.'
> 
>> 
> The "tenpo ... kama ..." for "if .. then..." is old fashioned though may bemaking a
> comeback. In
> 
> any case, if you use it, you don't put "la" at the end of the antecedent. And "pi" is not
> just
> 
> for long ecpressions but for right-grouping ones, that is, more than oneword added as
> a block to
> 
> modify the preceding.
> 
> o lukin e ni:
> 
> 
> mi pilin e soweli. soweli ni li soweli pi moku soweli, li soweli lawa pikasi suli, li
> soweli
> pi
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> mu wawa, li soweli pi linja lawa pi mute jelo. sina sona ala sona e sowelini?
> 
>> 
> Not really. A beast used for animal food, the lead beast of a big plant, abeast with a
> stong cry
> 
> and one with yellow hair?
> 
>> 
> 
> o kama pona! o pali pona! o jo musi!
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> jan Josan
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> ---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "James Chandler" <idojc@
> wrote:

> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> suno pona!
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> mi kama sona e Toki Pona tan ni: jan mute pi kulupu Olan (Auxlang) tokiwile
> 
> 
> 
> (voted) tawa Toki Pona lon musi lon kulupu ni.
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> tenpo ni la mi jo e sitelen pi tenpu suno (sitelen pi tenpo mute, diary,
> 
> 
> 
> blog) lon lipu Poke (Blogger).
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> kama pona!
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> [http://lltpblog.blogspot.com](http://lltpblog.blogspot.com)\
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
>>>>