---
author: "galactonerd"
date: 2007-05-14T21:51:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
How about "toki pi kalama musi?"jan Sosuwa---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), AJK <ikojba@...
> wrote:

>> toki musi is a way to describe poetry, too. But it can mean 'joke',too...
> Jen la plej amuzaj partoj, jen kion mi sxatas de Tokipono!
>> 2007/5/13, John E Clifford <clifford-j@...
>:
> 
>> 
> Gee, we don't have a word for poetry (there must be one somewhere,I judst
> 
> don't have it handy --

> 
> I hope). "toki olin" seems to be a particular kind of poetry,certainly
> 
> appropriate here. I'm
> 
> sorry we can't work the pupils in somehow but they just don't seemto fit
> 
> in tp. The last line
> 
> might be punchier as just "toki olin li sina," mirroring the question
> 
> better.
> 
>> 
> ---
 Marcos CRUZ <tokipona@...
> wrote:

> 
>> 
> 
> This little poem was written in the "last but one" century (the19º),
> 
> 
> Some poems of this unhappy author, Bécquer, are still verypopular in
> 
> 
> Spain. In fact, several verses from his poems have become a kind of
> 
> 
> idioms or proverbs.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> oko laso sina li lukin tawa mi la,
> 
> 
> sina toki e nimi ni: "toki olin li seme?"
> 
> 
> sina kin li toki e seme? a.
> 
> 
> toki olin li sama sina kin!
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> My main problem here was to choose a word for "poetry"! In the
> 
> 
> context of this litle poem, I used "toki olin". What do you think?
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> I think the translation keeps the original meaning and rhythm good
> 
> 
> enough. Unfortunatley, the TP word order is so rigid, that there are
> 
> 
> not many possible combinations.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> The original Spanish poem and a professional (not by me...)Esperanto
> 
> 
> translation are here:
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> [http://alinome.net/tokipona/tra_gabecquer.eo.html](http://alinome.net/tokipona/tra_gabecquer.eo.html)\
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> jan Mako
> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> Yahoo! Groups Links
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>>>> --

> Ĉar Dio tiel amis la mondon, ke Li donis Sian solenaskitan Filon,por ke
> ĉiu, kiu fidas al li, ne pereu, sed havu eternan vivon.
> -Johano 3:16, La sankta Biblio-
>> Ĝoju ĉiam, preĝu senĉese, pri ĉio donu dankon.
> -1 Tesalonikanoj 5:16-18a, La sankta Biblio-
>