---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2009-04-09T16:24:04+00:00
nestinglevel: 2
---
I reflexively disapprove of new words for which no particular need has been demonstrated (or even suggested in this case). I suspect (on almost no evidence at all) that "eye" and "mouth" are covered because they seem more useful in conveying further notions (though, perhaps many of these could have been handled by "hole" and "see" and "eat" and "light," and so on -- but they weren't). What the vocabulary of a language is is pretty haphazard and in a language without a clearly specified procedure for expanding vocabulary (except "Sonja announces that...") additions need careful consideration indeed (keeping in mind that tp's best feature is its very small size). Once the gates are opened too cavalierly, the flood would soon drown the language ("left," "right," bigger numbers, and a raft  
of other suggestions come back into play -- along with some suggestions to drop stuff as well). I think the present policy of not adding things is generally best --  
and it makes for more interesting mental exercise in using the language.  
  
  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
From: jan\_sewe <\*\*\*@laposte.net>  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Sent: Thursday, April 9, 2009 9:34:15 AM  
Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: nimi oko en nimi uta  

> [_Post by I have many names_](/P8r8m1QG/nimi-oko-en-nimi-uta#post1)  
> Hi! This is my first post, but i've been here awhile. I was wondering. If the words for body parts are compound nouns (eg ear nena kute), then why do "eye" and "mouth" have their own words?  
> 

I support your suggestion of adding a new word for each body part.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]