---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2009-04-09T21:05:02+00:00
nestinglevel: 4
---
Yeah, vocabulary simplification can be carried too far; NSM (natural semantic metalanguage), the most scientific system, gets by (it claims) with about 70 words, philosophical languages (the least scientific) use in the the 20-60 range (cf the alphabet), but both of those have mechanisms for extending the vocabulary. Of course the philosophical ones tend to run into Zipf's wall fairly early on -- the length of words is no longer proportional to the inverse of the frequen. This is a problem for fixed vocabulary languages as well. The conclusion to draw is that tp is not a general purpose language, not one which can talk about anything in the world at any level of detail, but has some other , phikosophical or therapeutic, goal.  
  
  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
From: jan\_sewe <\*\*\*@laposte.net>  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Sent: Thursday, April 9, 2009 1:43:50 PM  
Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: nimi oko en nimi uta  
  
  
  
  
  
Mental exercise? Yes, this is actually what attracted me first. But I really don't know if I'm gonna keep exercising my brain until TP has only the word pona left.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/P8r8m1QG/nimi-oko-en-nimi-uta#post3)  
> I reflexively disapprove of new words for which no particular need has been demonstrated (or even suggested in this case). I suspect (on almost no evidence at all) that "eye" and "mouth" are covered because they seem more useful in conveying further notions (though, perhaps many of these could have been handled by "hole" and "see" and "eat" and "light," and so on -- but they weren't). What the vocabulary of a language is is pretty haphazard and in a language without a clearly specified procedure for expanding vocabulary (except "Sonja announces that...") additions need careful consideration indeed (keeping in mind that tp's best feature is its very small size). Once the gates are opened too cavalierly, the flood would soon drown the language ("left," "right," bigger numbers, and a ra  
> 

ft of other suggestions come back into play -- along with some suggestions to drop stuff as well). I think the present policy of not adding things is generally best --  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/P8r8m1QG/nimi-oko-en-nimi-uta#post3)  
> and it makes for more interesting mental exercise in using the language.  
> 

\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]