---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2009-04-10 13:39:28 UTC
nestinglevel: 6
---
Well, there isn't a lot of drive to remove more words, though occasionally one or other may be seen as redundant (ilo and kepeken, for example). With the remaining, one can say quite a bit (witness all the texts around on the archives and beyond) but not everything -- and not always easily. That is in keeping with a goal (vaguely Daoist) for the language: simplicity. As for changing oko and uta, I agree. As noted, they have metaphorical uses that would be lost -- or awkwardly replace -- in a language without the basic words. The same cannot be said for many body parts (although maybe for some more).  
  
  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
From: jan\_sewe <\*\*\*@laposte.net>  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Sent: Thursday, April 9, 2009 5:47:53 PM  
Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: nimi oko en nimi uta  

> Yeah, vocabulary simplification can be carried too far; NSM (natural semantic metalanguage) , the most scientific system, gets by (it claims) with about 70 words, philosophical languages (the least scientific) use in the the 20-60 range (cf the alphabet), but both of those have mechanisms for extending the vocabulary. Of course the philosophical ones tend to run into Zipf's wall fairly early on -- the length of words is no longer proportional to the inverse of the frequen. This is a problem for fixed vocabulary languages as well. The conclusion to draw is that tp is not a general purpose language, not one which can talk about anything in the world at any level of detail, but has some other , phikosophical or therapeutic, goal.  
> 

OK for the non-general purposeness of Toki Pona. But even with just the therapeutic goal in mind, you'd still want to say \*some\* things in it. Now if people still want to remove more words from Toki Pona, then this language is going to end up without anymore expressive power at all - except perhaps for some religious purposes I'm unaware of.  
  
I'd be worried about replacing oko and uta by lupa lukin and lupa moku. oko and uta can be used in other contexts where these two replacements would be absolutely irrelevant. Try to find examples as an exercise! For the same kind of reason, I don't believe that pata and jan sama were so much equivalent - even though the former doesn't exist anymore. And very few of us do reject the numeric meaning of luka.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]