---
author: "Matthew Martin"
date: 2007-12-05 15:16:51 UTC
nestinglevel: 2
---
I had in mind this gloss: "one makes the feeling thing crazy with many  
words with crazy words"  
Or, "one makes ideas absurd with lengthy discussion and nonsense. "  
oops, I mean "nimi nasa" not "nimi nasin"  
  
reducio ad absurdum: wan li kama nasin e ijo pilin kepeken nimi mute  
kepeken nimi \*nasa\*  
  
I'm not sure if there is a quick way to say "to argue by assuming  
something is true, then demonstrating that such an assumption leads to  
a ridiculous conclusion and thereby showing the original proposition  
to be false," since I can't even say that briefly in English.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/jvGipRwT/new-england-li-seme-lon-toki-pona#post6)  
> Well, the trl of 'Novgorod' is obvious only if you know some Russian, which  
> most English speakers do not; even 'New Gorod' is pushing it too far. And  
> 'nu' of course does mean 'new' in English, though here I suspect that it is  
> being used only phonetically, which I take it is your point.  
> I don't follow your exposition of reductio, mainly, I suspect, because of  
> the polysemy of the words used: 'a unit brings a mental thing to system  
> using many words using systematic words.' But, in any case, I don't see  
> where 'many words' comes in.  
> \----- Original Message ----  
> Sent: Wednesday, December 5, 2007 7:38:36 AM  
> Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] «New England» li seme lon toki pona?  
> 
> > [_Post by Helmut Voigt_](/jvGipRwT/new-england-li-seme-lon-toki-pona#post3)  
> > How many (or few) people in the world know what "York" means so as to  
> > understand "ma sin pi soweli pi kon jaki"?  
> > 
> 
> Maybe \*"reducio ad absurdum" hasn't been translated into toki poka yet.  
> Sigh.  
> Novgorod. Russian town, always transliterated into English, although  
> obviously means "New City"  
> Nuyorican. Portmanteau of New York an Puerto Rican. The "nu" part is  
> purely phonetic and doesn't mean new in Spanish or English.  
> mi tawa, jan Matthew Martin  
> reducio ad absurdum: wan li kama nasin e ijo pilin kepeken nimi mute  
> kepeken nimi nasin  
> 
> > [_Post by Helmut Voigt_](/jvGipRwT/new-england-li-seme-lon-toki-pona#post3)  
> > ali o, toki!  
> > How many (or few) people in the world know what "York" means so as to  
> > understand "ma sin pi soweli pi kon jaki"? mi kin pilin e ni: ma tomo  
> > 
> 
> Nujoku  
> 
> > [_Post by Helmut Voigt_](/jvGipRwT/new-england-li-seme-lon-toki-pona#post3)  
> > anu ma tomo Nujo li pona. The usual way seems to be to translate  
> > geographical names if their components are obvious, such as "New Zealand"  
> > 
> 
> to  
> 
> > [_Post by Helmut Voigt_](/jvGipRwT/new-england-li-seme-lon-toki-pona#post3)  
> > German "Neuseeland" . In Chinese, only "new" is translated as "xin" while  
> > "Zealand" is written phonetically a "Xilan" resulting in "Xin Xilan".  
> > pona,  
> > jan Elumutu  
> > 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
> Looking for last minute shopping deals? Find them fast with Yahoo! Search.  
>