---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2007-12-06 15:26:10 UTC
nestinglevel: 6
---
"One listens" sounds a bit strange to me. In tp, I would preferably use "jan li kute" or "jan mute li kute", but not "wan", because this "one" actually means an undefined number of people and not just one person. As in French, "on dit" does not mean that only one person says something but that, on the contrary, many people do so. I think that "li kute" won't work at all because "li" is used to separate the subject from the verb. In your example, there is no subject at all, so "li kute" is just "listens" or "is listening", etc. and not a complete sentence.  
When writing these lines I once more feel how difficult it is to explain something using tp. Besides, I'm still not quite sure whether "mi awen pali" means that I interrupt my work or that I continue with it. Any suggestions?  
jan Elumutu  
  
Matthew Martin <\*\*\*@suburbandestiny.com> schrieb:  
My tireless error making will probably add words to toki pona's lexicon.  
  
wan li kama nasa e ijo.... to make something absurd  
one become absurd something...  
  
mi open kama sona e nasin sin tan kulupu nimi ni.  
  
kin, mi sona ala nimi ni: "one" lon toki Inli, "on" lon toki Kanse  
  
possible translations for the indefinite pronoun...  
  
wan jan li kute. one listens.  
wan li kute. one listens  
ona li kute. one listens. (but also he listens, not sure context  
would make it clear that I'm using an indefinate pronoun)  
jan li kute. one listens. (Still sounds like I have a particular person in mind)  
li kute. one listens.  
  
mi tawa,  
  
jan Matthew Martin  

> [_Post by Francois Schwicker_](/jvGipRwT/new-england-li-seme-lon-toki-pona#post15)  
> 
> > reduc(t!)io ad absurdum: wan li kama nasin e ijo  
> > 
> 
> pilin  
> 
> > kepeken nimi mute  
> > kepeken nimi nasin  
> > 
> 
> mi ken ala sona e toki sina. sina ken ala ken pana e  
> toki ni lon toki Inli anu lon toki Epelanto ?  
> Of which verb is "e ijo" the object ?  
> jan Kanso  
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
> Be a better friend, newshound, and  
> know-it-all with Yahoo! Mobile. Try it now.  
> http://mobile.yahoo.com/;\_ylt=Ahu06i62sR8HDtDypao8Wcj9tAcJ  
> 

\---------------------------------  
Ihr erstes Fernweh? Wo gibt es den schönsten Strand.