---
author: "MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com"
date: 2007-04-02T18:05:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
In a message dated 4/2/2007 1:18:40 PM Central Daylight Time, [clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net) writes:
"The girl you say I love came." apparently comes over into tp as something like the following:"meli li kama. sina toki e ni: ---
 olin e meli ni"  What goes into the ---
?  If what comes afterthe "toki e ni:" is a direct quote, then it has to be "sina." But that just seems wrong in thiscontext.  But then, so does "mi," since, while the quote (or so) is not subordinated officially,it is not necessarily an accepted fact but only what you think.  Is the sentence after "toki eni:" generally oratio obliqua or recta, direct or indirect speech?  (We could distinguish inwriting with quotation marks, of course, but that doesn't answer the general question.) I supposethe answer is, as usual, "It depends on the context" but here --
 and generally --
 the context isof no help and yet it makes a most significant difference.  And presumably we have some way tomake that distinction clearly.  (I take it that the sentence after "ni:" is always indirect,without claim of truth, so ---
 should be "mi." But I think this is just my preference at themoment, without any clear justitication.) I think we are justified in thinking that the clause is indirect, without claim of truth, because "toki" makes no assumptions about the truth of what is said.  "sina toki e ni" claims nothing about the truth of "ni", only that someone (sina) says something (ni), whatever the spoken item might be.Context can change this to a direct quotation.  For example, an imperative would be direct speech:  mi toki e ni tawa sina: o kama.  (I told you, "Come!")jan Setepo / stevo