---
author: "Sammy Skookum"
date: 2009-02-21 04:13:37 UTC
nestinglevel: 2
---
I've always been against the idea of toki pona as an IAL, or adding math and all the other things needed to make a new international language. We have those already. We have Esperanto, and Interlingua, and some other lesser knowns fighting for that crown. toki pona is a great language for what it was designed for, the anti-lojban, a dreamy and vague language for naked jungle elfs and hobo graffiti.  
  
  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
From: Helmut Voigt <\*\*\*@yahoo.de>  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Sent: Wednesday, February 18, 2009 6:55:43 AM  
Subject: AW: \[tokipona\] Questions about Toki Pona  
  
  
At present, colon and full-stop are used in toki pona. I think that commas, semicolons (;) or dashes are quite unnecessary in the light of tp's simple syntactic structure. Whoever wants to use ? and ! may do so 8-))  
I believe that tp has to "ripen" more before becoming an international language, and I am sure that despite all previous discussions about "right and left" or large numbers or "pi" chains, etc.  
But I remain optimistic!  
jan Elumutu  
  
\--- master1077 <\*\*\*@yahoo. com> schrieb am Mi, 18.2.2009:  
  
Von: master1077 <\*\*\*@yahoo. com>  
Betreff: \[tokipona\] Questions about Toki Pona  
An: \*\*\*@yahoogroup s.com  
Datum: Mittwoch, 18. Februar 2009, 12:41  
  
Do you think it can be the international language? Do you think it can  
really express everything by using it's root words. I believe so since  
the Chinese can do it and Toki Pona is very similar to it but what do  
you believe? Do you think Toki Pona should only be written with the 14  
letters and the period or should it be written with colons (:),  
explanation marks (!), question marks (?), etc...?  
  
Do you think Toki Pona has a future and if so, what future? Will it  
replace the European-centric Esperanto?  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]