---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2009-03-11T14:20:06+00:00
nestinglevel: 2
---
tp doesn't aspire to be an IAL and, if you will look into the archives on the problems in saying things like 'left' or 'west' or 'dog', for that matter, you'll see it is not very suitable. The de facto IAL is English at the moment and will, at any given time, be the hegemonical language with local pidgins.  
jan Kipo  
  
  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
From: ceigered <\*\*\*@yahoo.com.au>  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Sent: Wednesday, March 11, 2009 12:10:23 AM  
Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: Questions about Toki Pona  

> [_Post by master1077_](/WcsGzI9U/questions-about-toki-pona#post1)  
> Do you think it can be the international language? Do you think it can  
> really express everything by using it's root words. I believe so since  
> the Chinese can do it and Toki Pona is very similar to it but what do  
> you believe? Do you think Toki Pona should only be written with the 14  
> letters and the period or should it be written with colons (:),  
> explanation marks (!), question marks (?), etc...?  
> Do you think Toki Pona has a future and if so, what future? Will it  
> replace the European-centric Esperanto?  
> From a face-value look at it (I don't know any Toki Pona), I'd say that there are some really beneficial things about Toki Pona that are much better than Esperanto, like the small about of sounds and lack of annoying consonant clusters. But when it comes to IAL's, I believe that the most successful one will probably itself be a naturally born pidgin of the most popular or well known languages, e.g. elements from English, Spanish, Chinese, Japanese, Arabic etc etc. Actually, there's probably already an international language out there, we're just yet to put the pieces together ;)  
> 

\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]