---
author: "Pije"
date: 2003-04-16T01:55:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
mi toki kepeken toki pona:ali li musi lon ma Elopa. mi lukin e ijo suli mute. jan Inli li kinpona li toki nasa lili. :)tenpo pimeja la mi moku e telo nasa MUTE lon tomo ni. mi moku e onakan jan pona mi. ni li musi. jan li moku e telo nasa la ali lipona. :)mi pilin nasa tan telo nasa la mi pilin e ni: toki pona li wile etoki pona sin (a new proverb). mi wile e ni: "o sona musi." taso mipilin e ni: toki ni li sama ala sama toki "tenpo pona o lon"?mi lukin e toki "Memento Vivere (Remember to live)" lon tomoWestminster. toki ni li pona tawa mi. sina ali li pilin e seme?And now in English:Well, everything was fun in Europe. I saw a lot of fascinatingthings. The English people are nice, too, although they have funnyaccents. Hehe. --
 Anyhow, one night I drank a LOT of vodka with somefriends in our hotel. It was quite fun. Whenever someone drinks,everything is perfect. --
 While I was drunk from the vodka, I got tothinking: Toki Pona needs a new proverb, "o sona musi,"meaning "Remember to live" (and "live" in that sentence means toenjoy your life and have fun, of course; thus the musi part). I sawthe "Memento Vivere" quote in Westminster Abbey. The only concern Ihad was whether this proposed proverb is too similar to the alreadyexisting proverb "tenpo pona o lon". It depends on whether you thinkabout pona in a more reflective sense (which is probably the betterinterpretation) or in a wilder, partying type of sense (which wouldfit musi better). At any rate, I don't feel that "tenpo pona o lon"should really mean "Let the good times roll". Perhaps "tenpo pona olon" should be changed to "tenpo musi o lon". I was wondering whatall of you thought.--
 Pije