---
author: "Laurent Vogel"
date: 2004-06-19T08:28:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
toki!tempo pini lili la mi kama lukin e toki sitelen pi toki pona. a little while ago I happened to look at the writings of toki pona.mi pilin e ni: toki pona li ni lukin: I thought: toki pona seems to be thus:ken la li musi e mi, li pona tawa lawa mi. that it might amuse me, and that it be good for my mind (beinteresting???)li tan ni: (it) is because of this:jan li toki kepeken toki ante la, ona li kepeken nimi mute li sonae selo nimi taso; when speaking other languages, people use many words but they only understand the skin of words.taso jan li toki kepeken toki pona la, ona li wile sona e insa nimipi toka ante. but when speaking in toki pona one (need) understand the inside of words of other languagesmi wile toki e ni seme tan kin nasin ante. I want to say this same thing through yet another way.mi sona ala toki pona la, nimi ala li pimeja tawa mi. When I didn't know of toki sona, words were dark to me.toki pona li kule nimi ale pi toki ale. toki pona gives colour to all words of all languages.kin ni li pona. and that is good.mi kama sona e toki pona tan tempo kin lili mute! I've been learning toki pona for a very short time indeedken mute la sitelen toki mi li nasa lukin. most probably my writing looks weird.tenpo open la kama sona li ike pilin li pona tawa mi. at the beginning learning feels painful (but) is good to me.mu! tenpo mute ike la mi toki e lili taso. Moo! it takes me a badly long time to write but little.\*\*\*Progress is slow, but I'm confident. I've got a few questions.Is what I wrote above at least barely correct?I found in the yahoo group archives mention of several pages fromwww.tokipona.org that apparently disappeared. Are they still available?- tokiponize.php (instructions at how to tokiponize foreign words)- an english to tp dictionaryI'm also wondering about the status of various posts in the forumby Sonja/Marraskuu. Are any previous post describing Toki Ponastill valid? If not, is there a log of changes to the Toki Ponalanguage, so that one can know what might be obsolete in previous posts?At this time I've but one specific question:How do I say: speaking using Toki Pona / speaking about Toki Pona ?mi toki kepeken toki pona?- PDF lessons: speaking using toki pona.mi toki lon toki pona?- toki.html: speaking inside toki pona, in the realm of toki pona, i.e. using toki pona- but compare with pilin.html: toki pona lon - to say good things aboutmi tawa.jan Lawen (Laurent)