---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-10-03T19:54:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
The trick --
 which I forgot when using my memory rather than looking it up --
 isto consider whatsort of thing it is basically and put that first. To be sure, that is notalways clear, but, inthis case, it at least excludes 'uta nena'---
 Matthew Martin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> wrote:

> both can be attested in official documents
>> ijo uta walo --
 white mouth-y things
> [http://bknight0.myweb.uga.edu/toki/lesson/lesson15.html](http://bknight0.myweb.uga.edu/toki/lesson/lesson15.html)\
>> walo uta ---
 mouth-y whites
> [http://tokipona.org/sijelo.html](http://tokipona.org/sijelo.html)\
>> I made this up on the spot--

> nena uta --
 mouth-y protrusions, which I guess could also include the tongue.
> uta nena --
 bumpy mouth
>> The above is a common situation--
 I have a thing that has two features
> and it is hard to say what is the thing and what is the modifier of
> the thing.
>> mi jo e ijo. ona li nena. ona li lon uta.
> mi jo e ijo. ona li walo. ona li lon uta.That is, the teeth are IN the mouth, they don't BE the mouth (ona li uta ala).
> Putting "ijo" in front of the characteristics helps some, but
> stylistically I wouldn't want to start putting "ijo" in front of too
> many nouns.Yes, doesn't seem a good idea.
> ijo jan ilo li moku e ijo poka wawa. The robot-thing consumed the
> battery-things.
> jan ilo li moku e poka wawa. The robot consumed the batteries'Robot' is a nice case in point. In an Asimov story, a robot is clearly aperson (with a name andall, as well as all the anthropomorphic look and moves), so 'jan ilo' seemsright. But whenconfronting anything we have now and the characters in most Golden Age stories,'ilo jan' (cf.'soweli jan' for monkeys) seems better.
> mi tawa,
>> jan Matthew Martin
>>> On 10/3/07, [MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com) <[MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com)\
> wrote:

> 
>>> 
> In a message dated 10/3/2007 10:10:18 AM Central Daylight Time,[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> writes:

> 
>> 
> 'utala kepeken uta walo'
> 
>> 
> 'Teeth' are "walo uta" (pearly whites), no?
> 
>> 
> jan Setepo / stevo
>