---
author: "Matthew Martin"
date: 2007-09-28T16:09:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
ike mi.  mi ken ala toki e ni kepeken toki pona kin. I think at the heart of the kepeken vs lon for language has to do with pervasive metaphors.  UP --
 good, e.g. uplifiting story, DOWN- bad, e.g. downfall, civilizations collapse, etc. The above metaphor already is being used in TP, semi-officially and by analogy on the mailing list, eg. jan sewi, jan anpa.  The top person is God, the bottom person is the Devil. MONEY IS A LIQUID --
 cash flow, take a bath (wall street slang for losing a lot of money), liquid assets (accounting jargon for cash), frozen bank accounts This metaphor probably isn't the same in other cultures--
 I'd be cautious about saying \* mi jo mani telo mute.  I have a lot of liquid money LANGUAGE IS A PLACE --
 I speak in tongues, I am lost in thought, I translate it into toki pona.  I translated it from English to toki pona.LANGUAGE IS A PLACE WHERE WE MOVE --
 I lost my train of thought mi toki \*lon\* toki Inli. The above metaphor is pretty strong in European languages, unless someone points it out we might use this metaphor without noticing it is a metaphor. LANGUAGE IS A TOOL --
 (?) I speak with English (I wouldn't ever say this)(?) I speak using English, (awkward)My English is rusty. (Ah! It is a tool, like a rusty knife)I sign with ASL. mi toki \*kepeken\* toki Inli. LANGUAGE IS A THINGHis words carry no weight with me.I speak the English language.  (Same form as I kicked the ball) mi toki \*e\* toki Inli. LANGUAGE IS A STYLE/MANNER -Es runâju latviski.  I Latvian-ly speak.  (example from wikipedia [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adverb](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adverb)) \*Inli la\* mi tokimi toki \*Inli\*  (Inli modifies toki) I don't know if these are cultural issues or language design issues.  AFAIK, toki pona doesn't have a conculture to give us hints on what to do.   While the generally lefty social outlook of toki pona's inventor implies that "DISCUSSION IS WAR" (He defended is position) is probably not a metaphor in the spirit of toki pona. However, that doesn't seem to help choose metaphors for more neutral abstract concepts. mi tawa, Matthew Martin    On 9/28/07, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:
---
 Matthew Martin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> wrote:

> tempo pini la mi pali e lipu nimi ali sama.
> 
> I tried to make a thesaurus for toki pona. There are several word pairs
> where one word matches one of the definitions of another, but no word pairs
> where all of the definitions of one word match all the definitions of
> another.
> 
> taso mi pilin e ni: ni li sona lili. ken la jan mute li lon li wile kin e
> nimi pi weka ala lon toki pona.
> 
> I think this is academic except for people who are eager for toki pona to be
> a language of semantic primes (each word is undefinable using a single word
> from it's own language).
> 
> mi tawa,
> 
> Matthew MartinI suppose the justification for such a demand would be that it was more minimal than a languagewith some overlaps. But of course it pays for that with the need to make very long sentences, ineffect defining each notion you use. tp seems a nice middle ground: very small (though notdeliberately prime) vocabulary and idioms rather than definitions to cover the reest of the neededsemantic space (with what is needed perhaps restricted by external considerations). I look forward to seeing your thesaurus.Do we really qant "lon" in that tp sentence? This is a real question; we've been going aroundabout "in a language" for five years and it seems like time to pin it down.