---
author: "Josan Kapo"
date: 2007-09-28T19:52:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
It seems like the \`lon toki' vs \`kepeken toki' question could extend to all thewords that actas prepositions. I've tried to work out a series of sentences to test theusefulness of thisapproach. So far you have all demonstrated that the issue can be avoided byeither usingkepeken or pi, so I've tried to do this in each case as well.\[E\]-English \[t\]-toki pona (k)-kepekan (p)-piE1- letter X doesn't exist in toki pona.t1(lon)- kalama lili X li lon ala toki pona.t1(k)- toki pona kepeken ala e nimi X.t1(p)- kalama pi toki pona li jo ala e kalama lili X.E2- I don't want to add more words to toki pona.t2(tawa)- mi wile ala mute e nimi tawa toki pona.t2(k)- mi wile ala kepeken nimi sin kepeken toki pona.t2(p)- nimi sin pi toki pona li ike tawa mi.E3- I don't want to remove this word from toki pona.t3(tan)- mi wile ala weka e nimi ni tan toki pona.t3(k)- mi wile e ni: tenpo kama la toki pona kepeken e nimi ni.t3(p)- nimi ni pi toki pona li pona. mi wile ala weka e ni.E4- French is similar to Spanish.t4(sama)- toki Kanse li sama lili toki Epanja.t4(k)- toki Kanse en toki Epanja li kepeken e nasin sama lili.t4(p)- nasin pi toki Kanse li sama lili nasin pi toki Epanja.E5- I'm comparing English and toki pona.t5(poka)- mi lukin e toki Inli poka toki pona.t5(k,p)- mi lukin e kepeken pi toki Inli poka kepeken pi toki pona.mi tawa,jan Josan---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "Matthew Martin" <matt@...
> wrote:

>> ike mi. mi ken ala toki e ni kepeken toki pona kin.
>> I think at the heart of the kepeken vs lon for language has to do with
> pervasive metaphors.
>> UP --
 good, e.g. uplifiting story, DOWN- bad, e.g. downfall, civilizations
> collapse, etc.
>> The above metaphor already is being used in TP, semi-officially and by
> analogy on the mailing list, eg. jan sewi, jan anpa. The top person is God,
> the bottom person is the Devil.
>> MONEY IS A LIQUID --
 cash flow, take a bath (wall street slang for losing a
> lot of money), liquid assets (accounting jargon for cash), frozen bank
> accounts
>> This metaphor probably isn't the same in other cultures--
 I'd be cautious
> about saying
> \* mi jo mani telo mute. I have a lot of liquid money
>> LANGUAGE IS A PLACE --
 I speak in tongues, I am lost in thought, I translate
> it into toki pona. I translated it from English to toki pona.
> LANGUAGE IS A PLACE WHERE WE MOVE --
 I lost my train of thought
>> mi toki \*lon\* toki Inli.
>> The above metaphor is pretty strong in European languages, unless someone
> points it out we might use this metaphor without noticing it is a metaphor.
>> LANGUAGE IS A TOOL --

> (?) I speak with English (I wouldn't ever say this)
> (?) I speak using English, (awkward)
> My English is rusty. (Ah! It is a tool, like a rusty knife)
> I sign with ASL.
>> mi toki \*kepeken\* toki Inli.
>> LANGUAGE IS A THING
> His words carry no weight with me.
> I speak the English language. (Same form as I kicked the ball)
>> mi toki \*e\* toki Inli.
>> LANGUAGE IS A STYLE/MANNER -
> Es runâju latviski. I Latvian-ly speak. (example from wikipedia
> [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adverb](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adverb))
>> \*Inli la\* mi toki
> mi toki \*Inli\* (Inli modifies toki)
>> I don't know if these are cultural issues or language design issues. AFAIK,
> toki pona doesn't have a conculture to give us hints on what to do.
>> While the generally lefty social outlook of toki pona's inventor implies
> that "DISCUSSION IS WAR" (He defended is position) is probably not a
> metaphor in the spirit of toki pona. However, that doesn't seem to help
> choose metaphors for more neutral abstract concepts.
>> mi tawa,
>> Matthew Martin
>>>>> 
> Do we really qant "lon" in that tp sentence? This is a real question;
> 
> we've been going around
> 
> about "in a language" for five years and it seems like time to pin it
> 
> down.
> 
>> 
>>