---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-09-28T20:03:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Matthew Martin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> wrote:

> ike mi. mi ken ala toki e ni kepeken toki pona kin.
>> I think at the heart of the kepeken vs lon for language has to do with
> pervasive metaphors.
>> UP --
 good, e.g. uplifiting story, DOWN- bad, e.g. downfall, civilizations
> collapse, etc.
>> The above metaphor already is being used in TP, semi-officially and by
> analogy on the mailing list, eg. jan sewi, jan anpa. The top person is God,
> the bottom person is the Devil.
>> MONEY IS A LIQUID --
 cash flow, take a bath (wall street slang for losing a
> lot of money), liquid assets (accounting jargon for cash), frozen bank
> accounts
>> This metaphor probably isn't the same in other cultures--
 I'd be cautious
> about saying
> \* mi jo mani telo mute. I have a lot of liquid money
>> LANGUAGE IS A PLACE --
 I speak in tongues, I am lost in thought, I translate
> it into toki pona. I translated it from English to toki pona.
> LANGUAGE IS A PLACE WHERE WE MOVE --
 I lost my train of thought
>> mi toki \*lon\* toki Inli.
>> The above metaphor is pretty strong in European languages, unless someone
> points it out we might use this metaphor without noticing it is a metaphor.
>> LANGUAGE IS A TOOL --

> (?) I speak with English (I wouldn't ever say this)
> (?) I speak using English, (awkward)
> My English is rusty. (Ah! It is a tool, like a rusty knife)
> I sign with ASL.
>> mi toki \*kepeken\* toki Inli.
>> LANGUAGE IS A THING
> His words carry no weight with me.
> I speak the English language. (Same form as I kicked the ball)
>> mi toki \*e\* toki Inli.
>> LANGUAGE IS A STYLE/MANNER -
> Es runâju latviski. I Latvian-ly speak. (example from wikipedia
> [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adverb](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adverb))
>> \*Inli la\* mi toki
> mi toki \*Inli\* (Inli modifies toki)
>> I don't know if these are cultural issues or language design issues. AFAIK,
> toki pona doesn't have a conculture to give us hints on what to do.
>> While the generally lefty social outlook of toki pona's inventor implies
> that "DISCUSSION IS WAR" (He defended is position) is probably not a
> metaphor in the spirit of toki pona. However, that doesn't seem to help
> choose metaphors for more neutral abstract concepts.
>> mi tawa,
>> Matthew MartinVery nice! Yes, the issue is metaphors. We can't get along without them, ofcourse, since, asLakoff notes (at length), vocabulary is pretty much all metaphors (1300surviving I-E words giverise to almost all of English, for example). But, in constructing a language,we can be carefulabout what metaphors we use and not just fall into whatever the pattern is inour home language.To be sure, some metaphors are pretty universal --
 gods are up (at least many ofthe mostimportant ones are) and so the people who rule us, and so on. In the case oflanguages, my ownpreference is to take the language name as an adverb of manner, but I think thetool metaphorsworks well, too. When we move from speaking the language to the features, Istill don't like "in"(although "lon" actually means more nearly "at") but don't know what is better. So I have beenrephrasing things to avoid the issue.As for conworlds, tp has two: the "Daoist" paradise of simplicity and reducedinventory and thepost-Apocalyptic confluence of survivors to hammer out a pidgin. The lattergives more clues thanthe former (we could look for commonalities over the 15 or so languagesinvolved), but neither ismuch help. So we just hash it out until consensus --
 or an overwhelming amountof text on oneside --
 or jan Sonja laying down the law --
 arises.