---
author: "Josan Kapo"
date: 2007-09-30T22:33:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), John E Clifford <clifford-j@...
> wrote:

>>> ---
 Matthew Martin <matt@...
> wrote:

>> 
> ike mi. mi ken ala toki e ni kepeken toki pona kin.
> 
>> 
> I think at the heart of the kepeken vs lon for language has to do with
> 
> pervasive metaphors.
> 
>> 
> UP --
 good, e.g. uplifiting story, DOWN- bad, e.g. downfall, civilizations
> 
> collapse, etc.
> 
>> 
> The above metaphor already is being used in TP, semi-officially and by
> 
> analogy on the mailing list, eg. jan sewi, jan anpa. The top person is God,
> 
> the bottom person is the Devil.
> 
>> 
> MONEY IS A LIQUID --
 cash flow, take a bath (wall street slang for losing a
> 
> lot of money), liquid assets (accounting jargon for cash), frozen bank
> 
> accounts
> 
>> 
> This metaphor probably isn't the same in other cultures--
 I'd be cautious
> 
> about saying
> 
> \* mi jo mani telo mute. I have a lot of liquid money
> 
>> 
> LANGUAGE IS A PLACE --
 I speak in tongues, I am lost in thought, I translate
> 
> it into toki pona. I translated it from English to toki pona.
> 
> LANGUAGE IS A PLACE WHERE WE MOVE --
 I lost my train of thought
> 
>> 
> mi toki \*lon\* toki Inli.
> 
>> 
> The above metaphor is pretty strong in European languages, unless someone
> 
> points it out we might use this metaphor without noticing it is a metaphor.
> 
>> 
> LANGUAGE IS A TOOL --

> 
> (?) I speak with English (I wouldn't ever say this)
> 
> (?) I speak using English, (awkward)
> 
> My English is rusty. (Ah! It is a tool, like a rusty knife)
> 
> I sign with ASL.
> 
>> 
> mi toki \*kepeken\* toki Inli.
> 
>> 
> LANGUAGE IS A THING
> 
> His words carry no weight with me.
> 
> I speak the English language. (Same form as I kicked the ball)
> 
>> 
> mi toki \*e\* toki Inli.
> 
>> 
> LANGUAGE IS A STYLE/MANNER -
> 
> Es runâju latviski. I Latvian-ly speak. (example from wikipedia
> 
> [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adverb](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adverb))
> 
>> 
> \*Inli la\* mi toki
> 
> mi toki \*Inli\* (Inli modifies toki)
> 
>> 
> I don't know if these are cultural issues or language design issues. AFAIK,
> 
> toki pona doesn't have a conculture to give us hints on what to do.
> 
>> 
> While the generally lefty social outlook of toki pona's inventor implies
> 
> that "DISCUSSION IS WAR" (He defended is position) is probably not a
> 
> metaphor in the spirit of toki pona. However, that doesn't seem to help
> 
> choose metaphors for more neutral abstract concepts.
> 
>> 
> mi tawa,
> 
>> 
> Matthew Martin
>> Very nice! Yes, the issue is metaphors. We can't get along without them, ofcourse,since, as
> Lakoff notes (at length), vocabulary is pretty much all metaphors (1300surviving I-Ewords give
> rise to almost all of English, for example). But, in constructing a language,we can becareful
> about what metaphors we use and not just fall into whatever the pattern is inour homelanguage.
> To be sure, some metaphors are pretty universal --
 gods are up (at least manyof themost
> important ones are) and so the people who rule us, and so on. In the case oflanguages,my own
> preference is to take the language name as an adverb of manner, but I thinkthe toolmetaphors
> works well, too. When we move from speaking the language to the features, Istill don'tlike "in"
> (although "lon" actually means more nearly "at") but don't know what isbetter. So I havebeen
> rephrasing things to avoid the issue.
>> As for conworlds, tp has two: the "Daoist" paradise of simplicity and reducedinventoryand the
> post-Apocalyptic confluence of survivors to hammer out a pidgin. The lattergives moreclues than
> the former (we could look for commonalities over the 15 or so languagesinvolved), butneither is
> much help. So we just hash it out until consensus --
 or an overwhelmingamount oftext on one
> side --
 or jan Sonja laying down the law --
 arises.
>sina sitelen pi nimi Metapo li pona mute tawa mi. tenpo pini la mi pilin e ni:ijo li lon toki.taso tenpo ni la mi sona ante. jan li pali kepeken e toki. jan li sona kepekene toki. ni lipona.mi pali e kiwen musi – mi jan pali Sculptor. mi pali kepeken e oko e luka. mijo e sonalukin. mi ijo e ale. taso toki li ante. jan ken lukin e sitelen. (mi pilin ponae ni: sitelen kuleen sitelen toki li nimi sama.) taso jan ken ala lukin e toki. toki li sama ijolili li sama nasinmute.mi kama sona e toki pona tan ni: mi wile ken pilin ante tawa lon mi. tenpo ni lami jo esona sin.mi tawa,jan Josan