---
author: "Sonja Elen Kisa"
date: 2003-03-06T18:03:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I initially didn't give this hsuan much thought, but I now realize thereis some deeper meaning here. I will meditate upon this and see what newEnglish translation comes up.I often want to translate De as: power of inner good, the good within,the art of good... It is perhaps "dark" because it comes from thespiritual world within, the world of "non-being". Perhaps "dark" heremeans "mysterious" or "spiritual".Thanks, John!Sonja-----
Original Message-----
From: John Logan \[mailto:[johnrloganis@yahoo.com](mailto://johnrloganis@yahoo.com)\]Sent: March 5, 2003 10:27 PMTo: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSubject](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSubject): \[tokipona\] Re: Dao De Jing---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "Sonja Elen Kisa" wrote:

> I've been working on the Taoist scripture:
> [http://www.kisa.ca/daodejing.html](http://www.kisa.ca/daodejing.html)\
>> SonjaHi Sonja,I had a look at your translation and find it very well done.I have been making a serious study of No. 10 as a key to Taoist Yogaand especially of the concept of Te. Of all the translations I haveseen, all duck the most interesting Chinese denotation at the end.The phrase is "hsuan te" which speaks of "dark virtue". Ellen Chenpoints out that the phrase "hsuan lan" which is "dark vision"produces "hsuan te", dark virtue or power.There is certainly some interesting possibilities in this language,which is glossed over in the translations as they are written inEnglish. Lin Yutang comes the closest and it is still misleading inthe English.I was sensitized to this concept by Shunryu Suzuki writing on theSandokai in his book, BRANCHING STREAMS FLOW IN THE DARKNESS. Thetitle makes the point. His analysis is very suggestive. It seems thatthe darkness obliterates all distinctions, and it is in the darknessthat gestation occurs, as the seed in the soil, as the embryo in thewomb. Conception is the moment of fertilization, but gestation is aprocess in which the energies of life flow and grow, perhaps creatingthe 10,000 things.I feel that this quotation from the Sandokai is very Taoist eventhough the material appears to be related to Zen. Certainly in China,the source of the Sandokai, the influence of Taoism can be said tohave in some sense created the Zen approach. There was certainly aneffect both ways.Perhaps you will want to look deeper into the sources for yourtranslation. If you decide to follow this up I would be mostinterested to hear about what you discover.John L.Yahoo! Groups SponsorADVERTISEMENTTo unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:[tokipona-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.comYour](mailto://tokipona-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.comYour) use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.