---
author: "B. Knight"
date: 2003-10-23T01:43:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
toki!I'm very impressed by the adaptation of my lessons. It's fantastic! Ican tell you actually went through and made all those necessary cross- references. Great job!Publish the lessons? That'd be pretty cool, if someone else feelslike doing it. I'll buy a copy. I'm not exactly sure what you had inmind when you talked about publishing them, but I have four requests,and they go in this order:1. Get Marraskuu's permission.2. Don't charge the copies so that you make more than $4 US dollarsin profit for each one without my approval.3. Once 50 copies have been sold (Hah!), I'd like to receive aportion of the profit if there is any, if Marraskuu approves.4. Any other issues that arise from selling copies of the book arethe responsibility of the seller, not me.If someone decides to go ahead with the publishing, tell mebeforehand because I want to make this agreement more formal.About names of months, weekdays, and the four cardinal directions:I'm not trying to sound as if I'm speaking down to you, but I thinkyou're trying to be too specific. Of course, a Toki Pona society ishypothetical, but for directions I think they'd simply point at thedirection they're referring to or use significant nearby landmarks toget the point across. As for days and months, I seriously doubt thata Toki Ponan would worry about such things; it's overly complicated.According to Toki Pona philosophy, a day is simply a day; all pastdays and all future days are of almost no importance. It's just thatday.--
 Pije