---
author: "agneau belanyek"
date: 2006-06-24T12:23:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
mi pilin ike tan ni: mi wile toki lon toki Inli:a couple of thoughts about the recent thresd(s)1. I think we should resist the urge to find a toki pona phrase(or "kulupu nimi") for everything... if that is the direction we aregoing in we might as well have separate words for everything... likeEsperanto tries to!we shouldn't forget the importance of context in communicating intoki pona. this is one of the strengths of tp... in order tocommunicate effectively you need to empathise with your listener toensure that you both understand the context."soweli pali"=donkey, and "soweli tawa"=horse seem fine to me. butif i was talking about a donkey ride on a beach it would be moreappropriate to call the donkey a "soweli tawa" and similarly if iwas using a horse to plough a fieldthe existence of standard/shared "kulupu nimi" is not itself a badthing and we all use them but i feel we should remember that theirmeaning is not fixed. if "soweli" can mean different things indifferent contexts, so should "soweli wawa". or indeed "telojelo", "len lawa" or even "toki pona".we should also not try and find standard/shared "kulupu nimi" foreverything, but shoud try and use context more in conveying meaning2. it occured to me that when writing in toki pona about thelanguage we could use capitals to refer to the words themselves.This would be consistent with the use of capitals for borrowed wordsand names. i.e. the phrase: the word "suli"would translate as: nimi Sulibecause we are referring to that word by name, as opposed to nimi suliwhich is a big word. what do people think?3. the phrase "kulupu nimi" itself feels strange to me. i think(perhaps incorrectly?) that the word "kulupu" conveys more than theconcept of a group... more that of a community. most other uses ofthis word show this very clearly e.g. kulupu mama, kulupu pi tokipona.As an experiment to illustrate this, do you feel "kulupu ma" shouldrefer more to "the people of a land" or to a "federation of separatelands e.g EU)? Or perhaps it shoud refer equally to both dependingon the context?can the concept of a phrase be adequately conveyed using e.g. "nimitu" or "nimi mute"? or simply "nimi" e.g the following sentenceseems pretty clear to me: nimi "soweli pali" li pona tawa mi.what do you think?