---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-06-24T17:11:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 agneau belanyek <[agneau.belanyek@virgin.net](mailto://agneau.belanyek@virgin.net)\
> wrote:

> mi pilin ike tan ni: mi wile toki lon toki Inli:mi pilin ike tan ni ki li taso pali sama.
> a couple of thoughts about the recent thresd(s)
>> 1. I think we should resist the urge to find a toki pona phrase
> (or "kulupu nimi") for everything... if that is the direction we are
> going in we might as well have separate words for everything... like
> Esperanto tries to!Not a lot of danger. I am trying to make up a tp dictionary and what I keepgetting is not asingle translation but a range of meanings for each word or phrase.
> we shouldn't forget the importance of context in communicating in
> toki pona. this is one of the strengths of tp... in order to
> communicate effectively you need to empathise with your listener to
> ensure that you both understand the context.
>> "soweli pali"=donkey, and "soweli tawa"=horse seem fine to me. but
> if i was talking about a donkey ride on a beach it would be more
> appropriate to call the donkey a "soweli tawa" and similarly if i
> was using a horse to plough a fieldI saw some one use (or suggest using) Soweli Tawa for Deer a well as Horse
> the existence of standard/shared "kulupu nimi" is not itself a bad
> thing and we all use them but i feel we should remember that their
> meaning is not fixed. if "soweli" can mean different things in
> different contexts, so should "soweli wawa". or indeed "telo
> jelo", "len lawa" or even "toki pona".In context, Telo Jelo works nicely for Lemonade, as long as there is nonitpicking tpist around.
> we should also not try and find standard/shared "kulupu nimi" for
> everything, but shoud try and use context more in conveying meaning
>>> 2. it occured to me that when writing in toki pona about the
> language we could use capitals to refer to the words themselves.
> This would be consistent with the use of capitals for borrowed words
> and names. i.e. the phrase:
> the word "suli"
> would translate as:
> nimi Suli
> because we are referring to that word by name, as opposed to
> nimi suli
> which is a big word. what do people think?This is nice. Quotation marks are unambiguous,of course (or more nearly so).but thecapitalization and use of the word as an adjective to Nimi (or the like) is morenative tp (buthow do we SAY it?).
> 3. the phrase "kulupu nimi" itself feels strange to me. i think
> (perhaps incorrectly?) that the word "kulupu" conveys more than the
> concept of a group... more that of a community. most other uses of
> this word show this very clearly e.g. kulupu mama, kulupu pi toki
> pona.so far, I have only seen Kulupu Nimi as Phrase, Clause and Sentence, not evenList and certainlynot for just a pile of words, so there is some sort of organizing notion, sometogethernessinvolved.
> As an experiment to illustrate this, do you feel "kulupu ma" should
> refer more to "the people of a land" or to a "federation of separate
> lands e.g EU)? Or perhaps it shoud refer equally to both depending
> on the context?I would vote for the last at a guess, but usage will tell --
 if any arises.
> can the concept of a phrase be adequately conveyed using e.g. "nimi
> tu" or "nimi mute"? or simply "nimi" e.g the following sentence
> seems pretty clear to me:
> nimi "soweli pali" li pona tawa mi.
>> what do you think?I think those might be good for lists and piles of words (do we ever actuallyuse that notion?)butKulupu is handy when we intend that the whole is a meaningful unit.jan San Kipo
>>>>>>