---
author: "destree2"
date: 2006-06-26T18:51:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), John E Clifford <clifford-j@...
>wrote:

>o toki !I've collected about 400 items (compound words, expressions,different significations for the same world, etc...) among all themessages from the beginning on Yahoo's group and all the material TPavailable on Net.I have set it by frames in alphabetic order, a frame by letter. Butthe translation from TP is in French.If it could interest you or another member, I forward it to you withpleasure, I enjoy really doing this small compilation.However, I don't forget that the using of TP depends mainly of thecontext, so it's not a question of "word by word", but only anattempt to improve TP in some contexts or conversations.o awen ponaJan Janluka
>> ---
 agneau belanyek <agneau.belanyek@...
> wrote:

>> 
> mi pilin ike tan ni: mi wile toki lon toki Inli:
>> mi pilin ike tan ni ki li taso pali sama.
>> 
> a couple of thoughts about the recent thresd(s)
> 
>> 
> 1. I think we should resist the urge to find a toki pona phrase
> 
> (or "kulupu nimi") for everything... if that is the direction weare
> 
> going in we might as well have separate words for everything...like
> 
> Esperanto tries to!
>> Not a lot of danger. I am trying to make up a tp dictionary andwhat I keep getting is not a
> single translation but a range of meanings for each word or phrase.
>> 
> we shouldn't forget the importance of context in communicatingin
> 
> toki pona. this is one of the strengths of tp... in order to
> 
> communicate effectively you need to empathise with your listenerto
> 
> ensure that you both understand the context.
> 
>> 
> "soweli pali"=donkey, and "soweli tawa"=horse seem fine to me.but
> 
> if i was talking about a donkey ride on a beach it would be more
> 
> appropriate to call the donkey a "soweli tawa" and similarly ifi
> 
> was using a horse to plough a field
>> I saw some one use (or suggest using) Soweli Tawa for Deer a wellas Horse
>> 
> the existence of standard/shared "kulupu nimi" is not itself abad
> 
> thing and we all use them but i feel we should remember thattheir
> 
> meaning is not fixed. if "soweli" can mean different things in
> 
> different contexts, so should "soweli wawa". or indeed "telo
> 
> jelo", "len lawa" or even "toki pona".
>> In context, Telo Jelo works nicely for Lemonade, as long as thereis no nitpicking tpist around.
>> 
> we should also not try and find standard/shared "kulupu nimi"for
> 
> everything, but shoud try and use context more in conveyingmeaning
> 
>> 
>> 
> 2. it occured to me that when writing in toki pona about the
> 
> language we could use capitals to refer to the words themselves.
> 
> This would be consistent with the use of capitals for borrowedwords
> 
> and names. i.e. the phrase:
> 
> the word "suli"
> 
> would translate as:
> 
> nimi Suli
> 
> because we are referring to that word by name, as opposed to
> 
> nimi suli
> 
> which is a big word. what do people think?
>> This is nice. Quotation marks are unambiguous,of course (or morenearly so). but the
> capitalization and use of the word as an adjective to Nimi (or thelike) is more native tp (but
> how do we SAY it?).
>> 
> 3. the phrase "kulupu nimi" itself feels strange to me. i think
> 
> (perhaps incorrectly?) that the word "kulupu" conveys more thanthe
> 
> concept of a group... more that of a community. most other usesof
> 
> this word show this very clearly e.g. kulupu mama, kulupu pitoki
> 
> pona.
>> so far, I have only seen Kulupu Nimi as Phrase, Clause andSentence, not even List and certainly
> not for just a pile of words, so there is some sort of organizingnotion, some togetherness
> involved.
>> 
> As an experiment to illustrate this, do you feel "kulupu ma"should
> 
> refer more to "the people of a land" or to a "federation ofseparate
> 
> lands e.g EU)? Or perhaps it shoud refer equally to bothdepending
> 
> on the context?
>> I would vote for the last at a guess, but usage will tell --
 ifany arises.
>> 
> can the concept of a phrase be adequately conveyed usinge.g. "nimi
> 
> tu" or "nimi mute"? or simply "nimi" e.g the following sentence
> 
> seems pretty clear to me:
> 
> nimi "soweli pali" li pona tawa mi.
> 
>> 
> what do you think?
>> I think those might be good for lists and piles of words (do weever actually use that notion?)but
> Kulupu is handy when we intend that the whole is a meaningful unit.
>> jan San Kipo
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>>