---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-06-26T21:59:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I am very interested. I haven't kept count on what I have, but I have workedthrough only a smallpart of what is on the net and that rather hit-and-miss. I am currently runningboth tp-englishand english-tp as excel files --
 the only system I have at the moment thatalphabetizes easily.About 750 lines in each.---
 destree2 <[jldestree@hotmail.fr](mailto://jldestree@hotmail.fr)\
> wrote:

> ---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), John E Clifford <clifford-j@...
>> wrote:

> 
>o toki !
>> I've collected about 400 items (compound words, expressions,
> different significations for the same world, etc...) among all the
> messages from the beginning on Yahoo's group and all the material TP
> available on Net.
> I have set it by frames in alphabetic order, a frame by letter. But
> the translation from TP is in French.
> If it could interest you or another member, I forward it to you with
> pleasure, I enjoy really doing this small compilation.
>> However, I don't forget that the using of TP depends mainly of the
> context, so it's not a question of "word by word", but only an
> attempt to improve TP in some contexts or conversations.Yeah, the temptation to put each new translation (as it were) in as a new itemis strong; I thinkI have held myself to the ones that strike me a really surprising. And I have alist of itemsthat I can't figure out as well (they may turn out to be trivial but for nowthey are entrieswithout glosses).
> o awen pona
>> Jan Janluka
> 
>> 
> ---
 agneau belanyek <agneau.belanyek@...
> wrote:

> 
>> 
> 
> mi pilin ike tan ni: mi wile toki lon toki Inli:
> 
>> 
> mi pilin ike tan ni ki li taso pali sama.
> 
>> 
> 
> a couple of thoughts about the recent thresd(s)
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 1. I think we should resist the urge to find a toki pona phrase
> 
> 
> (or "kulupu nimi") for everything... if that is the direction we
> are
> 
> 
> going in we might as well have separate words for everything...
> like
> 
> 
> Esperanto tries to!
> 
>> 
> Not a lot of danger. I am trying to make up a tp dictionary and
> what I keep getting is not a
> 
> single translation but a range of meanings for each word or phrase.
> 
>> 
> 
> we shouldn't forget the importance of context in communicating
> in
> 
> 
> toki pona. this is one of the strengths of tp... in order to
> 
> 
> communicate effectively you need to empathise with your listener
> to
> 
> 
> ensure that you both understand the context.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> "soweli pali"=donkey, and "soweli tawa"=horse seem fine to me.
> but
> 
> 
> if i was talking about a donkey ride on a beach it would be more
> 
> 
> appropriate to call the donkey a "soweli tawa" and similarly if
> i
> 
> 
> was using a horse to plough a field
> 
>> 
> I saw some one use (or suggest using) Soweli Tawa for Deer a well
> as Horse
> 
>> 
> 
> the existence of standard/shared "kulupu nimi" is not itself a
> bad
> 
> 
> thing and we all use them but i feel we should remember that
> their
> 
> 
> meaning is not fixed. if "soweli" can mean different things in
> 
> 
> different contexts, so should "soweli wawa". or indeed "telo
> 
> 
> jelo", "len lawa" or even "toki pona".
> 
>> 
> In context, Telo Jelo works nicely for Lemonade, as long as there
> is no nitpicking tpist around.
> 
>> 
> 
> we should also not try and find standard/shared "kulupu nimi"
> for
> 
> 
> everything, but shoud try and use context more in conveying
> meaning
> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 2. it occured to me that when writing in toki pona about the
> 
> 
> language we could use capitals to refer to the words themselves.
> 
> 
> This would be consistent with the use of capitals for borrowed
> words
> 
> 
> and names. i.e. the phrase:
> 
> 
> the word "suli"
> 
> 
> would translate as:
> 
> 
> nimi Suli
> 
> 
> because we are referring to that word by name, as opposed to
> 
> 
> nimi suli
> 
> 
> which is a big word. what do people think?
> 
>> 
> This is nice. Quotation marks are unambiguous,of course (or more
> nearly so). but the
> 
> capitalization and use of the word as an adjective to Nimi (or the
> like) is more native tp (but
> 
> how do we SAY it?).
> 
>> 
> 
> 3. the phrase "kulupu nimi" itself feels strange to me. i think
> 
> 
> (perhaps incorrectly?) that the word "kulupu" conveys more than
> the
> 
> 
> concept of a group... more that of a community. most other uses
> of
> 
> 
> this word show this very clearly e.g. kulupu mama, kulupu pi
> toki
> 
> 
> pona.
> 
>> 
> so far, I have only seen Kulupu Nimi as Phrase, Clause and
> Sentence, not even List and certainly
> 
> not for just a pile of words, so there is some sort of organizing
> notion, some togetherness
> 
> involved.
> 
>> 
> 
> As an experiment to illustrate this, do you feel "kulupu ma"
> should
> 
> 
> refer more to "the people of a land" or to a "federation of
> separate
> 
> 
> lands e.g EU)? Or perhaps it shoud refer equally to both
> depending
> 
> 
> on the context?
> 
>> 
> I would vote for the last at a guess, but usage will tell --
 if
> any arises.
> 
>> 
> 
> can the concept of a phrase be adequately conveyed using
> e.g. "nimi
> 
> 
> tu" or "nimi mute"? or simply "nimi" e.g the following sentence
> 
> 
> seems pretty clear to me:
> 
> 
> nimi "soweli pali" li pona tawa mi.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> what do you think?
> 
>> 
> I think those might be good for lists and piles of words (do we
> ever actually use that notion?)but
> 
> Kulupu is handy when we intend that the whole is a meaningful unit.
> 
>> 
> jan San Kipo
> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
>>>>>>>