---
author: "Marcos Cramer"
date: 2005-01-28T17:01:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\
> It was just an idea. I had two reasons:
>> 1. I NEED to translate a calendar
> 2. I hoped that it is better to create not names, but descriptions of
> months. Yes, it is really highly culture-dependent. And I'm trying to make
> it less dependent. And I need help. :)Aren't numbers good, non-culture-dependent descriptions?One problem I just discovered is that we really should include "nanpa" into ourmonth names when using numbers, e.g. "tenpo mun nanpa wan" for January. For wedon't want to confuse "January" with "one month".Anyway, we are only going to use the month-names very rarely, especially becauseof Greg's good proposal to prefer talk of seasons (though they are morecountry-dependent again). Thus it doesn't really matter too much if they are abit long. At least they can be understood by anyone, even if they haven'tencountered it before.Talking about this issue, I am asking myself: How are we going to say the daysof the week in Toki Pona? They are certainly going to be used quite a lot,aren't they?My proposal is to use "tenpo suno nanpa wan" etc. (starting from Monday).We wouldn't really ever use precise dates in TP (far to pedantic), but in therare case you want to communicate your birthday to someone, you could use "tenposuno nanpa luka luka luka luka luka tu pi tenpo mun nanpa luka wan" (that's the27th of June - my birthday).(Of course you should only use this way of specifying the date if you are alsospecifying the month; else one might think you are talking about the day of theweek, at least if you intended to talk about one of the first seven days of amonth.)ni li kama ike lili. taso ali li pona.jan Makosi.