---
author: "appalachian_moonshiner"
date: 2005-01-28T17:59:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), Marcos Cramer <marcos.cramer@b...
>wrote:

> Aren't numbers good, non-culture-dependent descriptions?
> Anyway, we are only going to use the month-names very rarely,especially because of Greg's good proposal to prefer talk of seasons(though they are more country-dependent again). Thus it doesn'treally matter too much if they are a bit long. At least they can beunderstood by anyone, even if they haven't encountered it before.I'm just wondering: do we really need to avoid culture-dependentdescriptions?The western calendar uses names that have lost their meanings,anyway. How many people know "January" means "the month of Janus,"the Roman god of gates and doorways? Or that "February" is "themonth of Febra," the Roman festival of purification?I may well be the only one to think this way, but what's wrong withmaking up our own (actual) names for the months of the year? It'strue they wouldn't be used much, since toki pona discourages over-complication - but geez I think it would sound better to use namesthat have an actual meaning rather than "tenpo mun nanpa luka lukutu" for December (although the Romans weren't any more imaginative -December means "tenth month).Perhaps giving descriptive names is contrary to the simplisticspirit of toki pona. But then isn't merely numbering the months morein the spirit of some banal, purely logical conlang like (shudder)Lojban?Perhaps we could use names for the moons/months of the year like theSioux Indians did:April - Moon of the Birth CalvesMay - Moon of StrawberriesJune - Moon of Ripe JuneberriesJuly - Cherry Ripening MoonAugust - Moon of the Ripe PlumsSeptember - Moon of the Yellow LeavesOctober - Moon of the falling LeavesNovember - Moon of the Hairless CalvesDecember - Moon of Frost in the TipiJanuary - Tree Popping MoonFebruary - Sore Eyes MoonMarch - Moon When the Grain Comes UpThis is just an example. Obviously they used names that describedwhat culturally important things were happening at that time ofyear. And this calendar certainly wouldn't make sense in thesouthern hemisphere or in the tropics.Maybe we could determine what is culturally important to toki ponaspeakers and then name the divisions of the year accordingly. Itseems to me that anything describing crops or seasons would bebiased toward speakers in a specific part of the planet, so thatwouldn't be good. I don't know... Could we come up with somethingbased on the movement of the stars? I don't know how that wouldwork or if it would be compatible with speakers from differenthemispheres.-jan Wasolitawa