---
author: "Marcos Cramer"
date: 2005-01-29T15:07:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\
> given that:
> (1) almost no other non-toki-ponan concept/word has a single
> universal toki ponan equivalent.
> (2) when communicating in toki pona meaning is conveyed not only by
> words but also largely by context
> (3) the division of the year into months is as foreign to tokiponan
> culture as the precise definition of large numbers...
> there is no need for all this effort to establish a universal
> convention for naming months...sina toki e lon. mi ike. tenpo ni la mi ante e pilin mi. mi pilin e ni: mi muteli wile jo ala e nimi pi tenpo mun ali.
> What then about the original problem... this translation of this
> blog software (was it?) into tp... well we all know that tp has two
> ways of dealing with names of things...
> (1) adopting words(i.e. "unofficial words") which are tokiponised
> and with a capital are to be used imho only for those things whose
> names are an essential part of tp culture... personal names,
> significant place names,etc. imo month names and day names are not
> significant enough to tp to deserve tokiponised adopted words.
> (2) borrowing words which are usually indicated by the use of quotes
> e.g. jan "George Bush", ma tomo "Barton-on-Sea".
> So, what is this software being translated from? Probably English...
> English \_IS\_ the international language of the Internet whether we
> like it or not... (that is probably why this thread is in English)
> well then, I would have no problem with tenpo mun "January", tenpo
> suno "Monday"... if that conveys the meaning to the intended party.mi pilin e ni: tenpo mun la mi pilin sama sina. tenpo suno la mi pilin antesina. tenpo suno li suli mute tawa jan ali. tenpo mute la mi ken toki e ni:"tenpo suno ni", "tenpo suno pini", "tenpo suno kama". taso toki pona la mi mutesitelen mute lon "internet". tenpo suno ante la sina ken lukin e sitelen mi. tanni la "tenpo suno ni" li ken ike.tenpo ni la mi ken sitelen e "tenpo suno luka wan". tenpo suno kama la sinasitelen e ni la sina ken sona e ni: tenpo suno luka wan la mi sitelen e ni.jan Makosi.