---
author: "appalachian_moonshiner"
date: 2005-01-29T18:49:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "agneau2" <agneau.belanyek@v...
>wrote:

>> toki pona is not a global language and universalism is not one of
> it's central principles!
>> (1) almost no other non-toki-ponan concept/word has a single
> universal toki ponan equivalent.
> (2) when communicating in toki pona meaning is conveyed not onlyby words but also largely by context
> (3) the division of the year into months is as foreign totokiponan
> culture as the precise definition of large numbers...
> there is no need for all this effort to establish a universal
> convention for naming months...
> English \_IS\_ the international language of the Internet whether we
> like it or not... (that is probably why this thread is in English)
> well then, I would have no problem with tenpo mun "January", tenpo
> suno "Monday"... if that conveys the meaning to the intended party.
> this does not show weakness in tp. all languages have to cope in a
> similar way with concepts that are foreign to their culture.perhaps
> it is actually a strength of tp that this can be done without
> adulterating its core principles...Come on, though. Don't we all admire unadulterated languages likeIcelandic, which proudly refuses to adopt foreign loanwords? (forexample, "computer" is literally "number prophet." "electricity"is "amber power")Because Icelanders jealously guard their language, Icelandicchildren can still read with ease the ancient sagas written in OldNorse, the language of the Vikings!I have to admit that globalization is not attractive to me, either.It's just that the toki pona community is not only miniscule, butscattered across the globe. However, I have no problem whatsoeverif someone on the equator talks about the stations of the year interms of "tenpo mun telo mute" or "tenpo mun telo ala." And at thesame time another person in a different part of the world is talkingabout "tenpo mun lipu loje." We would just have to accept thatunless we're in the same location as the speaker, he's talking abouthis perception of the time of year, which is probably completelydifferent from ours.The only other suggestion I have is to emulate other languages whichnamed the months and days of the year after mythological gods andgoddesses. The obvious problem is, of course, that toki pona lacksa large body of original literature (really isn't nearly all of theexisting literature just translated from other sources?). Thereforethere are no mythological heroes to name things after. Someoneearlier had suggested naming a month after Sonja, but come on, Ithink even Sonja would consider that a little silly. Why wouldnaming months and days after mythological figures that don't evenexist be any better (especially if they would be drawn from amythology that hasn't even been created yet)? Well, I guess you gotme on that one.That brings us back to square one, but I still think, even in thelight of all other arguments, that "tenpo mun kasi nasa" is theperfect name for April!a a a!-jan Wasolitawa