---
author: "agneau belanyek"
date: 2005-01-30T16:33:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "appalachian\_moonshiner"<corbancrandall@f...
> wrote:

> Come on, though. Don't we all admire unadulterated languages like
> Icelandic, which proudly refuses to adopt foreign loanwords?\[snip\]
> I have to admit that globalization is not attractive to me, either.\[snip\] However, I have no problem whatsoever
> if someone on the equator talks about the stations of the year in
> terms of "tenpo mun telo mute" or "tenpo mun telo ala." And at the
> same time another person in a different part of the world istalking
> about "tenpo mun lipu loje."\[snip\]
> The only other suggestion I have is to emulate other languageswhich
> named the months and days of the year after mythological gods and
> goddesses.\[snip\]
> That brings us back to square one, but I still think, even in the
> light of all other arguments, that "tenpo mun kasi nasa" is the
> perfect name for April!upon rereading your post i think we are broadly in agreement... itis preferable to refer to periods of time as tenpo \[mun\] lete, tenpo\[mun\] pi lipu loje, tenpo \[mun\] pi telo ala etc... we must rememberthat the location of the speaker is part of the context and thatmeaning is expressed in any language but especially in toki ponausing context as well as words! (the same applies to time. \[refMarcos\] so that if i said "tenpo suno kama" that should beunderstood taking the time in which it was said into account as thatis part of the context.)i think there is a flaw in your analogy with icelandic though.icelandic (from what you say, i have little other knowledge) isremarkable for creating new expressions to cope with all aspectsof "modern living" using its existing word stock. that is "good"because icelandic has no philosophical basis. in toki pona, however,we do not (or should not? or would not?) necessarily want to be ableto discuss the ups and downs of the stock market, the mathematics ofquantum mechanics or indeed arbitrary divisions of time which startand end in the middle of the night! So, the fact that we do not havethe vocabulary for these things is a good thing! to shoehorn thesethings into tokipona would be to betray the philosophical basiswhich is central to tp.but we must admit that we do live in a foreign (i.e. non tp) culturewhere these things are important and that it is sometimes necessaryto refer to them... borrowing words to do this is appropriate imhoas long as the borrowed term is accessible to the person you arespeaking to (so that communication does take place)... back to theicelandic analogy, i bet in Rejkjavic they still call "macDonalds"by the same name... and it does not betray their principles thatforeign words like these are being used in daily speech.\[i did not want to get involved in this debate because i felt it waspointless and now i don't seem to stop talking...\]anyway, what else i have to say is a genuine tokiponan conversationso i will continue in tp...mi kepeken ala e kasi nasa. ona li ike tawa mi. mi sona ala e mutetan ni. taso mi wile sona e ni: tenpo "April" li tenpo pi kasi nasatan seme?jan Anjo