---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-05-03T20:15:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Harry Coburn <[mattibun@gmail.com](mailto://mattibun@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> Sewi can be used as a verb 'to lift' or 'to raise'? That's why I had the
> tawa in there.Yeah; any non-transitive-verbX can be converted to a transitive verb so that "Ali X e B" means "Adoes something which results in 'B li X being true.'"
> toki sona "jan lili mute en akesi mute"
>> jan lili mute li musi lon poka telo lili.Since "poka" is not a preposition here, we want it modified by "telo lili",i.e., "poka pi telolili" "on the bank of the pond". "poka telo lili" means "the little edge of thewater", not "theedge of the little water."
> ona li lukin e akesi mute lon telo lili
> ona li utala li moli e akesi mute kepeken kiwenPresumably "e akesi kepeken kiwen" goes with both "utala" and "moli" and I amnot sure this worksofficially; it would be safer to have separate bits with each verb:"utala eakesi mute kepekenkiwen li moli e mute." say.
> akesi li (tawa?) sewi e lawa ona tan telo lili
> ona li toki ni:"toki e nimi ni: What is said is the direct object of "toki" (there arediscussions going onaround "toki" at the moment but this seems settled) and (a recently expoundedconvention) directquotations are introduced by "nimi ni" ("ni" alone is for indirect quotations,"said that...").
> a, jan lili mute o pini! sina mute li pilin ni: ni li musi. mi mute li
> pili ni: ni li moli!
>> toki sona li lon ni: pona jan li sama ike pi jan ante. (I like this. It
> extends the meaning of the moral beyond individuals)
>> jan Eli
>>>> On 5/3/07, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

> 
>> 
> Further thought that come as some as I hit Send.
> 
>> 
> ---
 Harry Coburn <[mattibun@gmail.com](mailto://mattibun@gmail.com) <mattibun%40gmail.com
>> wrote:

> 
>> 
> 
> toki sona "jan lili mute en akesi mute"
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> jan lili mute li musi poka telo lili.
> 
> 
> ona li lukin e akesi mute lon telo lili
> 
> 
> ona li utala li moli e akesi mute kepeken kiwen
> 
> 
> akesi li sewi tawa e lawa ona tawa tan telo lili
> 
>> 
> Could also just use "sewi" (without "tawa")
> 
>> 
> 
> ona li toki ni:
> 
> 
> a, jan lili mute o pini! ona mute li pilini: ni li musi. mi mute li
> 
> pilini:
> 
> 
> ni li moli!
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> toki sona li lon ni: ona pona li sama ona antu ike.
> 
>> 
> Could (should?) use "jan" rather than "ona" "antE"
> 
>> 
> 
> The Boys and the Frogs
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> SOME BOYS, playing near a pond, saw a number of Frogs in the water
> 
> 
> and began to pelt them with stones. They killed several of them, when
> 
> 
> one of the Frogs, lifting his head out of the water, cried out: "Pray
> 
> 
> stop, my boys: what is sport to you, is death to us."
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> Moral: -"One man's pleasure may be another's pain."-
> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
> jan Eli
> 
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>>