---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-05-04T14:01:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
jan Setepo keeps working to get the grammar, strictly speaking, into conformitywith what'shappening. Every now and again, I send out a sheet of idioms that have turnedup --
 eitherrecently or back in the early days. There are also those summaries I mentionedyesterday and, ofcourse --
 for things like "sewi" as a transitive verb --
 a careful reading ofsome of the littlecomments throughout the lessons.I don't see anything wrong with this passage now, it perfects the promise of theoriginal. Nicelydone!---
 Harry Coburn <[mattibun@gmail.com](mailto://mattibun@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> Pona.
>> toki sona "jan lili mute en akesi mute"
>> jan lili mute li musi lon poka pi telo lili.
> ona li lukin e akesi mute lon telo lili
> ona li utala e akesi mute kepeken kiwen li moli e mute
> akesi li sewi e lawa ona tan telo lili
> ona li toki ni:
> a, jan lili mute o pini! sina mute li pilin ni: ni li musi. mi mute li
> pilini: ni li moli!
>> toki sona li lon ni: pona jan li sama ike pi jan ante.
>> (Is there a formal grammar that's being kept up somewhere with all the
> proposed changes/usages beyond Pije's lessons? When looking at the ali nimi
> at tokipona.org sewi didn't have a verb entry. I've been thinking a lot
> about the philosophical basis of this language and I'll probably post about
> it separately later as I sort my thoughts.)
>> jan Eli
>> On 5/3/07, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

> 
>> 
>> 
> ---
 Harry Coburn <[mattibun@gmail.com](mailto://mattibun@gmail.com) <mattibun%40gmail.com
>> wrote:

> 
>> 
> 
> Sewi can be used as a verb 'to lift' or 'to raise'? That's why I had the
> 
> 
> tawa in there.
> 
>> 
> Yeah; any non-transitive-verbX can be converted to a transitive verb so
> 
> that "A li X e B" means "A
> 
> does something which results in 'B li X being true.'"
> 
>> 
> 
> toki sona "jan lili mute en akesi mute"
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> jan lili mute li musi lon poka telo lili.
> 
>> 
> Since "poka" is not a preposition here, we want it modified by "telo
> 
> lili", i.e., "poka pi telo
> 
> lili" "on the bank of the pond". "poka telo lili" means "the little edge
> 
> of the water", not "the
> 
> edge of the little water."
> 
>> 
> 
> ona li lukin e akesi mute lon telo lili
> 
> 
> ona li utala li moli e akesi mute kepeken kiwen
> 
>> 
> Presumably "e akesi kepeken kiwen" goes with both "utala" and "moli" and I
> 
> am not sure this works
> 
> officially; it would be safer to have separate bits with each verb:"utala
> 
> e akesi mute kepeken
> 
> kiwen li moli e mute." say.
> 
>> 
> 
> akesi li (tawa?) sewi e lawa ona tan telo lili
> 
> 
> ona li toki ni:
> 
>> 
> "toki e nimi ni: What is said is the direct object of "toki" (there are
> 
> discussions going on
> 
> around "toki" at the moment but this seems settled) and (a recently
> 
> expounded convention) direct
> 
> quotations are introduced by "nimi ni" ("ni" alone is for indirect
> 
> quotations, "said that...").
> 
>> 
> 
> a, jan lili mute o pini! sina mute li pilin ni: ni li musi. mi mute li
> 
> 
> pili ni: ni li moli!
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> toki sona li lon ni: pona jan li sama ike pi jan ante. (I like this. It
> 
> 
> extends the meaning of the moral beyond individuals)
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> jan Eli
> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
> On 5/3/07, John E Clifford<[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)<clifford-j%40sbcglobal.net
>>> 
> wrote:

> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> Further thought that come as some as I hit Send.
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> ---
 Harry Coburn <[mattibun@gmail.com](mailto://mattibun@gmail.com)<mattibun%40gmail.com
><mattibun%40gmail.com
>> wrote:

> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> 
> toki sona "jan lili mute en akesi mute"
> 
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> 
> jan lili mute li musi poka telo lili.
> 
> 
> 
> 
> ona li lukin e akesi mute lon telo lili
> 
> 
> 
> 
> ona li utala li moli e akesi mute kepeken kiwen
> 
> 
> 
> 
> akesi li sewi tawa e lawa ona tawa tan telo lili
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> Could also just use "sewi" (without "tawa")
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> 
> ona li toki ni:
> 
> 
> 
> 
> a, jan lili mute o pini! ona mute li pilini: ni li musi. mi mute li
> 
> 
> 
> pilini:
> 
> 
> 
> 
> ni li moli!
> 
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> 
> toki sona li lon ni: ona pona li sama ona antu ike.
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> Could (should?) use "jan" rather than "ona" "antE"
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> 
> The Boys and the Frogs
> 
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> 
> SOME BOYS, playing near a pond, saw a number of Frogs in the water
> 
> 
> 
> 
> and began to pelt them with stones. They killed several of them,
> 
> when
> 
> 
> 
> 
> one of the Frogs, lifting his head out of the water, cried out:
> 
> "Pray
> 
> 
> 
> 
> stop, my boys: what is sport to you, is death to us."
> 
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> 
> Moral: -"One man's pleasure may be another's pain."-
> 
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> 
> jan Eli
> 
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>>