---
author: "zlaod"
date: 2009-04-19 00:15:04 UTC
nestinglevel: 0
---
I came to this site, because I feel that the Lord is leading me to bring the gospel to the Toki Pona people, and I wanted to learn more about your beautiful country like its languadge native religion etc. Anyway I came before our churches Mission Board this Easter and asked the Holy Ghost to move their hearts. There going to have another meeting but to make a long story short, I think there going to pay for the plane ticket. But I'm having some trouble with my travel agent (wonderful colored woman, very articulite) who caint find Toki Pona on her list. I think its the high schools these days. Anyway is it considered its own country, or is it part of some other one like Indonisia?  
  
Also what religion are they? (Is it Tayoism?) And is it safe in Toki Pona? Are they a democracy like us? Whats the weather like over there? I heard it rains a lot on the islands. Is there soap? Do they use toilet paper? And what are some good gifts to bring to native families? My uncle says American blue jeans--is that okay? I don't want to bring wisky or rock music. Do you think they would like little angel figurines? Or some childrens books telling them about Jesus. Sorry for asking so many questions but I'm starting to get nervous. Theres so much I dont know.  
  
I'm learning the language right now and with Jesuses help I will soon be on my way, with a suitcase full of Bible tracks (if we can get these translated in time--there drawn as funnybooks). Of course I still believe that America is the greatest country in the world, but we all have to help the less fortunite. God bless.