---
author: "bobbyo696"
date: 2006-06-16T08:41:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Another Zen koan:jan mute li kama tawa jan lawa Bankei tan ni: ona li toki ala tan tokiawen. ona li toki tan pilin sina.jan lawa pi kulupu Nichiren pi nasin Puta li pilin ike tan ni: janlili li kute tawa ona. taso jan mute li kute tawa jan Bankei. ona litawa e jan lawa Bankei."O Bankei, jan li kute tawa sina tan ni: sina pona tawa ona. sina iketawa mi. sina ken ala ken lawa e mi?""ken. o kama tawa poka mi. mi pana sona e sina."tenpo ni la ona li pilin suli. ona li tawa poka jan Bankei."sina kute lili lon poka ni. sina kute mute lon poki ante."ona li tawa poka ante pi jan Bankei."o lukin e ni: mi lawa e sina. mi pilin e ni: sina li pona. tenpo nila o awen li kute."The Original:The master Bankei's talks were attended not only by Zen students butby persons of all ranks and sects. He never quoted sutras not indulgedin scholastic dissertations. Instead, his words were spoken directlyfrom his heart to the hearts of his listeners.His large audience angered a priest of the Nichiren sect because theadherents had left to hear about Zen. The self-centered Nichirenpriest came to the temple, determined to have a debate with Bankei."Hey, Zen teacher!" he called out. "Wait a minute. Whoever respectsyou will obey what you say, but a man like myself does not respectyou. Can you make me obey you?""Come up beside me and I will show you," said Bankei.Proudly the priest pushed his way through the crowd to the teacher.Bankei smiled. "Come over to my left side."The priest obeyed."No," said Bankei, "we may talk better if you are on the right side.Step over here."The priest proudly stepped over to the right."You see," observed Bankei, "you are obeying me and I think you are avery gentle person. Now sit down and listen."How did I do with this translation? Also, should I put the whole textof the original in my post or just the link to where I found it?jan Scott.