---
author: "pike"
date: 2006-10-24T18:31:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
ni li lipu pi nimi toki lili. mi wile e ni: ona li kama pona tawa sinamute.Jen la dokumentoj (kiuj jes estas .doc). Mi esperas, ke ili senproblemedissendighos.Here're the documents (which are indeed .doc). I hope they'll comethrough correctly.Voici les documents (qui sont des documents .doc, oui). J'espère qu'ilsvont arriver sans problème.o pilin pona!jan TanOn Tue, 26 Sep 2006 15:23:50 -0500, [ISO639-3@sil.org](mailto://ISO639-3@sil.org) said:
> Dear Dan,
>> The document "Codes for the representation of names of languages - Part
> 3:
> Alpha-3 code for comprehensive coverage of languages" has now reached
> Final Draft International Standard, with the results of the final vote
> from ISO member organizations due shortly. In anticipation of a favorable
> vote, and now that we have determined the procedure for suggesting
> changes
> to the ISO/FDIS 639-3 code set, it is now appropriate for me to forward
> to
> you the forms and guidance below. We appreciate your interest and effort
> in recommending corrections and updates. We also appreciate your
> patience.
> It has been a long wait for all of us (and it is not quite finished).
>> The starting point for all Change Proposals is to complete a "Change
> Request" form. This form is used for changes to reference information,
> for
> proposing additions of heretofore unidentified languages, and for
> proposing merges, splits, or retirements of existing code elements.
> Please
> submit the forms according to the following scenarios:
> For an entirely new language (not previously considered a dialect or
> subvariety of a language already having a code element), submit a Change
> Request form and a New Code request form. For a constructed language,
> this
> would be the scenario.
> For a split of one language code element into two or more code elements,
> please submit one Change Request for the existing code element and a New
> Code Request for each of the new languages into which the existing
> element
> would be split.
> For a merge of two or more language code elements into a single
> (existing)
> element, please submit one Change Request form identified according to
> the
> language code element into which all other varieties would be merged.
> For a code element retirement for a reason other than a split or a merge
> (e.g., no evidence for the language exists), please submit one Change
> request form identified according to that code element.
> Changes involving language name, scope, type, and/or macrolanguage
> mapping
> for a single identifier may be combined on a single Change Request form.
>> I hope that the forms are sufficiently clear with regard to how they
> should be completed. The whole process is further described on the final
> page of the Change Request form. These are MS Word document forms,
> meaning
> that text can only be entered into the gray fields of the forms. Please
> do not hesitate to ask about anything that is unclear or problematic with
> regard to the forms. Alternate formats are available.
>> It may that the Change Request will require some modification or
> clarification with regard to the proposed actions. Such things will be
> discussed privately between the submitter and the Registrar to arrive at
> a
> fully documented Change Proposal. At the time the Change Proposal is
> accepted, it will be assigned a number and the submitter will be notified
> prior to making the Change Proposal public. Since LinguistList is the
> sub-designate for ancient and constructed languages, your submission
> would
> also be reviewed by them prior to being made public.
>> In completing each form (as many instances as are needed), please name
> each document as follows (omit the braces { } in an actual filename):
> ISO639-3\_ChangeRequest\_{three letter identifier under consideration, or
> language name for a completely new language}.doc
> ISO639-3\_NewCode\_{new language name}.doc
>> Once completed, these forms will be part of a Change Proposal that will
> be
> open to public review. The Registration Agency will invite reviewers from
> scholarly organizations, universities and national bodies to give comment
> (which will also become a part of the public record of the Change
> Proposal), as well notify the linguistic community of new proposals via
> the LinguistList discussion list. All Change Proposal documentation will
> also be posted on the 639-3/RA website at
> [http://www.sil.org/iso639%2D3/default.asp](http://www.sil.org/iso639%2D3/default.asp) where it may be downloaded.
> Comments on proposals should be submitted to the ISO 639-3 Registrar at
> [ISO639-3@sil.org](mailto://ISO639-3@sil.org).
>> Thank you for your interest in the ISO/FDIS 639-3, Codes for the
> Identification of Languages, Part 3.
>> Best regards,
>> Joan Spanne
> ISO 639-3/RA
> SIL International
> 7500 W Camp Wisdom Rd
> Dallas, TX 75236
> [ISO639-3@sil.org](mailto://ISO639-3@sil.org)\
>>>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> Dear Dan,
>> Thank you for your interest in the ISO/DIS 639-3 Codes for the
> representation of names of languages - part 3. Since the ISO/DIS 639-3 is
> still awaiting final vote as it currently stands, we are not making any
> additions or changes at present. After the final vote has occurred, we
> will post information about the process by which the public may propose
> changes and how they will be reviewed for inclusion in the 639-3
> standard.
> I will be glad to send you a notice of that posting when it occurs.
>> Because your proposal is with regard to a constructed language, it may be
> that LinguistList (the original source of the ancient, historical and
> constructed languages in ISO/DIS 639-3) is a part of the proposal review
> process, but at this time, I do not know. You may wish to write to them
> now and propose Toki Pona for inclusion there. Perhaps you have done
> this,
> and they sent you on to us; as I said, that aspect of the change proposal
> process is still an open question. Their email address is
> [linguist@linguistlist.org](mailto://linguist@linguistlist.org).
>> Best regards,
>> Joan Spanne
> ISO 639-3/RA
> SIL International
> 7500 W Camp Wisdom Rd
> Dallas, TX 75236
> [iso639-3@sil.org](mailto://iso639-3@sil.org)\
>>>>> "pike" <[pike_56@fastmail.fm](mailto://pike_56@fastmail.fm)\
>> 02/12/2006 03:42 PM
>> To
> [iso639-3@sil.org](mailto://iso639-3@sil.org)\
> cc
>> Subject
> Request for inclusion of constructed language Toki Pona
>>>>>>> I was looking with interest through the list of constructed languages
> that have made it into ISO/DIS 639-3, and noted that one of my favourite
> artificial languages, Toki Pona, is missing.
>> As per the requirements given on your website, Toki Pona was designed
> for human communication and has a literature, including an online
> encyclopedia ([http://tokipona.wikicities.com/](http://tokipona.wikicities.com/)). There is also a mailing
> list (with about 200 members) and an IRC channel devoted to discussion
> in the language. It is, I believe, better-known and more widely-used
> than some conlangs already in the draft standard, such as Jakelimotu.
>> You can find more information on Toki Pona at its Wikipedia article
> ([http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toki_Pona](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toki_Pona)) or at the official Toki Pona
> website ([http://www.tokipona.org/](http://www.tokipona.org/)). I hope you'll consider its
> inclusion.
>> Thank you,
> Dan Campbell
>