---
author: "Sonja Elen Kisa"
date: 2002-09-13T14:53:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Such names are a personal matter.The method I have been using for myself and my friends is to only "Tokiponize" the first name, i.e. the name you commonly use in every day life with your friends and family in your simple every-day existence. Generally, I see surnames as a sort of formality. However if somebody loves the sound of both names together and frequently uses both, there is no reason why they cannot tokiponize both together like "jan Santo".If you want the last name to be a separate word, I think it should come after the first name, because it acts as a modifier. Which John? John Doe. Big John. jan San To. jan San suli. With famous people, I tend to use the last name only, since this is often the most recognizable word. George W. Bush = jan Pusi (or jan lawa pi ma Mewika)Einstein = jan Ansitan -----
Original Message-----
From: bacchus13579 \[mailto:[kurum3@aol.com](mailto://kurum3@aol.com)\] Sent: September 12, 2002 9:53 PMTo: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSubject](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSubject): \[tokipona\] Thoughts on Translations of NamesFirstly, I just wanted to clarify my thought that people's first and last names are usually blended together when Toki-Ponizing them, like this: "John Doe" becomes "Santo". Is that correct?Even though you should probably blend the first and last names, I've been wondering, just out of curiosity, how the name would be translated if for some reason you weren't supposed to blend the first and last names together... For "John Doe," would it make better sense to put John's last name first, and then his actual first name would come second, to simply show which type of Doe he is, like this: "To San". This seems to make better sense to me, because I feel that a last name is more important than a first name, and so it should be mentioned first, just as a noun is listed before its adjectives in normal speech.What does everyone else think? Of course, this is probably all merely hypothetical, since, if I'm not mistaken, you simply blend the first and last names together anyhow.mi wile lape.--
 PijeTo unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:[tokipona-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.comYour](mailto://tokipona-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.comYour) use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.