---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2009-02-28T13:37:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
ali o, toki!I think that the (still) small number of toki pona speakers is one of the mainreasons for not accepting tp as an IAL. I don't know who the people are whodecide on granting the IAL status to a new language and how deep their ownknowledge of those languages is about the fate of which they have to decide(latent pessimism is obvious). The number of Lojban speakers is small as well,but maybe the inventors were more influential than jan Sonja, who knows? For me,Lojban is much too theoretical and - when spoken - hardly understandable (e.g.,how does a full stop sound?). Nevertheless, I am open to be persuaded of thecontrary if possible.I am and remain to be a tp defender!jan Elumutu---
 Joop Kiefte <[ikojba@gmail.com](mailto://ikojba@gmail.com)\
> schrieb am Do, 26.2.2009:Von: Joop Kiefte <[ikojba@gmail.com](mailto://ikojba@gmail.com)\
>Betreff: \[tokipona\] Toki Pona language codeAn: [iso639-3@sil.orgCC](mailto://iso639-3@sil.orgCC): "Marcos Cramer" <[marcos.cramer@gmail.com](mailto://marcos.cramer@gmail.com)\
>, [tokipona@yahoogroups.comDatum](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comDatum): Donnerstag, 26. Februar 2009, 23:02Hello,I tried to call and got somehow to the Ethnologue staff. The person theredirected me finally to this address and to the website, and said he couldn'tgive me the number. So here is my mail.Some time ago we have submitted a form about Toki Pona to acquire a languagecode. The request received disapproval. I didn't see any motivation on thisdecission and I would like to see about that if possible.Now several times yet I wanted to translate something and needed a languagecode (World of Goo, [http://tinyurl](http://tinyurl). com/wogwiki , and forvo.com)In the first case the webmaster finally decided to use 'tp' as no otherlanguage than toki pona ever uses that code, and in the second case wefinally decided to use x-tp (because of limited space in the databasefields, otherwise we would have used x-tokipona). Now my questions are:- When, which and how should I fill in forms again to apply for this year'sround of language code assignment?- What do you recommend in those cases mentioned to get the languageproperly registered in those systems?(I want to note furtheron that I carbon-copy this mail to several otherpeople. The first one is the person who did the first request, the secondone is the yahoo-list of Toki Pona speakers, to keep them up to date aboutthis. It's however not all Toki Pona speakers who are in there, it ishowever the biggest group known to date keeping contact with each other inand about toki pona.)Thanks for your willingness to pay attention to this mail, and thanks forany reaction soon,Joop Kiefte,appointed moderator of the Yahoo list and fluent speaker of Toki Pona--
Communication is essential. So we need decent tools when communication islacking, when language capability is hard to acquire...- [http://esperanto](http://esperanto). net - http://esperanto- jongeren. nlOnly those who attempt the absurd will achieve the impossible. I think it'sin my basement... let me go upstairs and check.- M. C. Escher\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]