---
author: "Raven Silverwings"
date: 2004-07-05T01:06:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "frpeterjackson"<frpeterjackson@y...
> wrote:

> 
> 2) TP just sounds so lovely. I speak it all the time. Mostly tomy
> 
> dog. Today she wouldn't come until I said "o tawa".
>> I meant she wouldn't move out of my way.
>> 
> (mi wile) e tenpo suno pona pi ma Kanata li tenpo suno pona piopen
> 
> pi ma Mewika!
>> I should've said, '...pi ma Kanata \_e\_ tenpo suno...'
>> 
> jan PitaAnd to even shorten the topic, you can merely also say, 'mi pakala!',lol. Remember that you can't use 'pi' unless it is like:ona li ken toki e ni: 'mi pakala' tan ni: ona li lili e nimi. ona liken ala kepeken e 'pi' tan nasin sina. sina wile pali e ni:'word' pi 'word' 'modifier' tomo telo nasa (crazy washroom), en tomo pi telo nasa (bar, place ofcrazy water)Nifty little thing, that 'pi'. I myself want to contribute to TP byadding some sort of lyric to a song, but modern-day pop songs are toohard, especially with the syllables, so it bothers me so much.'pi' li nasa. mi wile pali e kalama musi tan ni: mi wile pana e ponatawa toki pona. taso tenpo ni la kalama musi en ijo pi kalama musi lipona ala mute tawa toki pona.I'm very appreciative of your enthusiasm towards toki pona. I myselfthink that using toki pona as an example in the classroom would be awonderful idea to teach as a basis for whatever. That is, if it isaccepted. Sonja indeed is genius with this language, and I use iteveryday as much as I can. I'm trying to teach it to my friend, togive a little contribution to its child-like wonder of a language,and to agree, it is indeed beautiful, even moreso cute!