---
author: "Kevyn Scott Calanza Bello"
date: 2004-09-29T06:33:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\
> I'd be actively against an OOo user interface in Toki Pona since I
> believe that the required precision of a program's user interfacegoes
> contrary to the "small and simple" philosophy of the language.mi sama mute poka sina! I agree totally with you! Mi samas kun vi!
> Besides, I'd imagine you'd either have to (a) be extremely verbose
> (which might make things difficult with screen real estate), (b) be
> extremely vague, or (c) use lots of non-standard words (such as "ijo
> Fajelo" for "File", or whatever).mi kin sama mute! Mi samas ankau'e! I agree also!
> At the moment, only Latin is the official way - other methods aremore
> toys, in my view; nice for personal amusement but not official waysto
> write the language, so need not be supported any more than, say,
> Japanese in Romaji need be supported, or Chinese in Cyrillic
> transliteration.Yup! the latin letters are the most used writing system in the worldanyways, so it would be more recognizable and easier to read for mostpeople. The reason for the many writing systems are only for personalaesthetic amusement, such as my hangeul (I have no idea why peoplewrite it as hangul, when hangeul is the proper romanization) andanother's liking towards japanese kana for toki pona, etc.For me, i'd rather have more toki musi and kalama musi kepeken tokipona rather than these 'things.' It's more fun, and less...industrial? lol! Even the simplest toki pona song is so hard totranslate, given the tight syllables.mi tawa! G'is! Bye! (^\_^ hehe... the official languages!)jan Ke