---
author: "Josan Kapo"
date: 2007-10-08T14:55:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), MorphemeAddict@... wrote:

>> The color words "loje" ('red') and "jelo" ('yellow') are explicitlymentioned
> as reverses of each other. But yellow and red are not in any wayopposites.
> I'd prefer to see a three-way pattern of words, based onred-yellow-blue
> (Blue is "laso").
> To use the same syllables "je", "lo", "so" (leaving out "la",because "la" is
> already a common word), yellow might be "jelo", red then "loso", andblue
> "soje".
>> Another possibility is the first syllable as the color morpheme andcombine
> them as we do already:
> je - yellow, lo - red, so - blue; or jeje - yellow, lolo - red, soso- blue.
> orange - jelo/loje
> green - jeso/soje
> purple - solo/loso
>> I chose red-yellow-blue as the basis, because I think colors formed by
> absorption (pigments) are much easier to create than colors createdby emission
> (red-green-blue).
>> jan Setepo / stevo </HTML
>>ni li ken pali tawa jelo en laso en loje. taso ona li toki semekepeken walo en pimeja? ona li wile toki kin e ni: walo uta, tempopimeja en sona sama. tenpo ni la mi mute li jo e nimi ni: wawa en pipi.this schema could work for hue, but I don't know how add informationabout color value. would you want to do the same with walo and pimejatoo? (would pink be walo lolo or walo/lowa)? or would you keep walofor "white thing or part", but combine wa- into color combinations?jan Josan