---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-03-13T18:55:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Jim Henry <[jimhenry1973@gmail.com](mailto://jimhenry1973@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> On 3/13/07, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

> 
> ......A more
> 
> direct form would be nice. There are two possibilities within the presentsystem: a
> preposition
> 
> meaning "-er than" or a transitive verb meaing "is -er than" with theproperty going into the
> 
> complement place. As for vocabulary, "mute" seems to be the obvious choicesemantically. It
> has
> 
> no propositional use at the moment, so it could be extended without cost: "Ali B mute C" (the
> use
> 
> of "mute" as an intensifier follows in the familiar way from this use: "-erthan usual" or
> some
> 
> such).
>> So for instance,
>> ma Losi li suli mute ma Tosi.
>> kili ni li suwi mute kasi ni.
>> I guess that might work...
>> 
> There is already a use for transitive "mute," the regular "makes many/much,augment,
> 
> increase, nourish." But, like all thses regular vts, this is a doublet fora "kama" form,
> "kama
> 
> mute" so the transitive form could be freed up at little cost (and I thinkthe comparatives
> are
> 
> more common than all the various present meanings taken together): "A limute B e C."
>> I.e.,
>> ma Losi li mute suli e ma Tosi.
>> kili ni li mute suwi e kasi ni.
>> 
>Of course,
> 
> we can almost get the prepositional form out of this: "A li B pi mute C"though with a
> different
> 
> grammatical explanation.
>> I.e.,
>> ma Losi li suli pi mute ma Losi.
>> kili ni li suwi pi mute kasi ni.I suppose it has to be "mute pi ma tosi", etc. to get the grouping right. Inany case it is notvery elegant, as collapsed sentences usually aren't.
> That doesn't make as much sense
> to me as the other forms you proposed.
>> Of the other two forms, I think I like
> adding a prepositional use of "mute" a little
> better than changing its established
> transitive verb use.Although I thought of the verbal form first and the prepositional one while Iwas writing up thatversion, I agree that the prepositional form is better from just about any pointof view.
> As for superlative, I ran across this
> interesting sentence in the Toki Pona
> encyclopedia:
>> ma Losi li suli mute li suli pi nanpa wan.I would think the easiest superlative is simply "than all others" "mute anteali" (or colloquiallyjuast "mute ali." Of course, we can make the class talked about explicit if needbe: "mute kamasona (ante) ali" "the most ... of the students."
> I think we could generalize that to some
> extent, although
>> jan Tale li kan pilin mute li kan pilin pi nanpa wan.
>> doesn't seem to work as well."ken"? I don't get this as a superlative: "Tale can feel the most"?
> --

> Jim Henry
> [http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry](http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry)\
>