---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2007-08-29T07:36:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I really cannot see any necessity to say, e.g., "la ken la ..." or "la tenpo ni la...". Maybe, forming short phrases with "la" only at their end is better than forming very long ones where the reader/listener realizes only after a while that the sentence started with a "la" phrase. The example of Japanese shows that marking the end of a phrase works well: a question is formed by adding "ka" at the very end of the sentence even if it were very long. On the other hand, Spanish uses upside-down question/exclamation marks at the beginning of the respective phrase. Perhaps this made you think of putting "la" phrases between two "la"s. jan [ElumutuMorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://ElumutuMorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com) schrieb: I recently suggested that "la" be used at the beginning of "la" phrases to alert the hearer that a "la" phrase was coming, and that this would also make "la" consistent with other marker particles, such as "e" and "li", as marking the beginning of their respective phrases. Someone responded that it's just as possible to consider those particles as marking the end of the preceding phrase.  At the time I had no opposing argument.  I now submit that it's not true that these particles can be considered to mark the end of their phrases.  The evidence for this assertion is that when a particle is repeated (for the meaning of 'and'), the particle introduces its own kind of phrase, and does not simply mark the end of the preceding one.For example, in the sentence     mi lukin e sina e ona (I see you and him) it's possible to treat the first "e" as merely marking the end of the verb phrase "lukin", but the second "e" does not mark the end of a verb phrase, but rather introduces another object phrase.   The same is true of sentences using "li".  In the sentence     jan li lukin li kute (Someone sees and hears) the first "li" may be thought of as ending the subject phrase "jan", but the second "li" doesn't mark the end of any subject phrase.  It can only be interpreted as marking the beginning of a new predicate, just as the first "li" marked the beginning of a predicate. In a similar way, "la" should be used to mark the beginning of a "la" phrase, possibly with another marker ("la" again or something else) to mark its end. jan Setepo / stevo Die etwas anderen Infos rund um das Thema Reisen. BE A BETTER WELTENBUMMLER!