---
author: "frpeterjackson"
date: 2006-11-20T23:04:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "Lluís Batlle" <viriketo@...
> wrote:

>> mi pilin e ni: sina li sona ala e pilin pi toki pona.
>> toki pona li toki li sona. sina li sona e toki taso.
>a a a! toki ni pi sina mute li musi pilin mute!mi pilin e ni: toki pona li nasin ala. toki pona li toki taso. janSonja li toki e ni: toki pona li nasin pilin li nasin lukin. taso tokili toki. nasin pilin li nasin pilin. ni li tu ijo ante. mi mute lisona e ante ni.toki pona li jo ala e nanpa suli. toki pona li ken jo e nanpa suli.taso toki pona li jo ala e ona. toki pona li jo ala e nimi mute. tasoni li wile pi jan Sonja. ni li suli mute ala. toki pona li ken jo enanpa suli. taso ona li jo ala e nanpa suli.tenpo ni la mi mute li ken lukin e kulupu tu poka jan pi toki pona:kulupu nanpa wan li pilin e ni: toki pona li nasin pilin (filozofio).taso kulupu nanpa tu li pilin e ni: toki pona li ilo tawa toki pokajan ale. mi pilin sama kulupu nanpa tu. jan pi toki pona li toki enasin pilin la mi pilin ike. toki pona li ilo taso. jan li wilekepeken e toki pona kepeken nasin pona. jan li wile ala pali e nimisin tawa toki pona.Please, my friends, TP is not a "philosophy", despite whatever itscreator may claim! A language is what it is and can express whateverit can express. I do not think any of the suggestions for expressinglarge numbers is feasible, not because they violate the "spirit" ofTP, but simply because they violate the grammar. And the grammar iswhat it is. This is why the innovative use of "la" does not wash. It'sclever, but it's ungrammatical.This whole "nanpa suli" issue throws a spotlight on a fundamentaldifference in the way tokiponans view the language. One faction seesit bearing a philosophy which must be adhered to in order to speak itproperly. Another faction sees it as a useful tool for communicatingas much as possible using as little as possible. I make no bones aboutidentifying with the latter.TP \*could\* have higher numbers, but it simply does not. End of story.I for one dearly wish it did because it would greatly enhancecommunication at little cost to the language. As I have proposedbefore, adding words for "ten" and "hundred" would simply raise thevocabulary to 120 words. No big deal. But I respect Sonja Kisa'swishes. After all, I wouldn't want someone tinkering with a language Ihad created.The danger of arguing from a "toki pona philosophy" angle is that itcan turn into an all-purpose excuse for rejecting any number oflegitimate usages within the parameters of the language. E.g. someonemight come up with a two- or three-word TP expression which many finduseful, as folks have done with "tomo tawa" to mean "car". But what ifsomeone came along and said "Oh, you can't put those words togetherthat way; that's so anti-TP." Baloney! If someone sticks to the 118words and uses them grammatically, more power to them! Let's becreative! But to allow for such creativity, we cannot live in fear ofany TP "language police" telling us how we may or may not use thelanguage.By the way, there was a time when it was considered "un-TP" to use"luka" in the sense of "five". I haven't seen any objections to thislately. Is this not a case of creativity within the proper limits?Finally, I want to stress that even though we can identify twodifferent "camps", I do not all mean that we are at odds, much lessthat we should be at odds. I just want to shed a little light on thisso that whatever approach one of us is coming from, we can recognizeand appreciate the other person's point of view.jan Pita