---
author: "easternspring"
date: 2006-11-21T19:50:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "Rick Miller" <rdmiller3@...
> wrote:

>> I agree with jan Pita. My main objection to the numbering schemewas
> that it was turning "la" into a homonym for two different meanings.
> That's why I don't like using "luka" as "five" either, because it
> takes on a totally different meaning after "nanpa". I don't evenlike
> linking "tu wan" to get three because gramatically that would only
> mean "one pair". The only numbers I like in TP are:
>> ala
> wan
> tu
> mute
> ali
>> jan Wiko
>jan wiko!mi pilin e ni: sina wile e pona suli pi toki pona. mi en sinakepeken ala nanpa "tu luka" anu nanpa "tu tu" la mi en sina ken alatoki. nanpa suli lili li pona tawa toki pona. jan li wile ala toki enanpa suli lili la jan li ken ala toki tawa jan ante.mi pilin e ni: nasin pi toki pona li pona taso mi mute li wile antee nasin pi nanpa suli lon toki pona."nanpa suli" li nimi ike ala! nanpa suli lili (24, 17) li pona!mi pilin e ni kin: mi mute li ante ala e nasin pi nanpa suli en nimisuli la toki pona li awen toki lili. mi wile e ni: toki pona li tokisuli. jan mute li toki kepeken toki pona lon ale.jan pi toki pona li wile e ni. toki pona li toki suli li jo e nimimute.I think your perception is rather radical. TP won't be able tosurvive without the use of numbers like 4 or 5. "mute lili" is justtoo obscure.As for your argument about my method of saying big numbers - I thinkthat by adding the "-" and replacing "la" in "poka" the problems youpointed out are solved. I would'nt find it too dificult tounderstand that wan-poka-ala-poka-ala means one hundred...Grammar, as to oppose to what you're arguing, is not an hermeticallysealed doctrine which no body can alter or question. I think that ifpeople can understand this method, and it's not confusing, it couldbe gramatically correct.I think that having the capability of saying things like 17 or 24 iscrucial for any language, especially TP, if we TP'ns want it to bewidely-used (and I do...).besides, many languages depend heavily on context. phrases thatmight be translated as "one pair", as you wrote in your previousmessage, are not illegitimate.that's the whole concept of toki pona - simplicity leading toambiguity. for example, how would you translate - "sina suli" -there are several ways to translate that - and that's both thebeauty and appeal of TP! YES to AMBIGUITY and CONTEXT-DEPENDENTphrases!!so I think - meaningful phrases in simple words.I would be glad to read your responses...