---
author: "MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com"
date: 2006-11-22T10:31:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
In a message dated 11/22/2006 8:45:20 AM Central Standard Time, [clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net) writes:
One possible purpose of a short vocabulary to begin with is (as in NSM) to provide the means fordefining everything else.  Thus, as in mathematics of the axiomatic sort, new words are introducedas horthand for longer expressions which have demonstrated their value by being often used andrepeated.  Thus, for example, we might at some point introduce "kalo," say (I would not like thisparticular one), for "tomo tawa" and, even better, "poto" for "tomo tawa telo" or "pilano" for"tomo tawa kon."  We have the thought, we have espressed it in the minimal vocabulary, now we justexpress it in a Zipfier way."tomo tawa" as a definition for "car, automobile" leaves a huge amount to be desired compared to an NSM definition.  What would be the Toki Pona equivalent of English "friend" be?  I suggest this:nimi Friend li ni:(a) jan ali li sona e ni: jan mute li pilin pi jan ante sama ni:(e) mi sona pona e jan ni.(i) tenpo mute la mi wile poka jan ni.(o) tenpo mute la mi wile pali e ijo poka jan ni.(u) mi poka jan ni la mi pilin pona.(j) mi pilin e ni: jan ni pilin mi la ona li pilin e sama.(k) mi pilin jan ni la mi pilin sama ni.friend2(a) everyone knows: many people think about some other people like this:(b)   I know this person well(c)   I want to be with this person often(d)   I want to do things with this person often(e)   when I am with this person, I feel something good(f)   I think this person thinks the same about me(g) I think like this about this person (Understanding Cultures through Their Key Words, Anna Wierzbicka, p. 52)Some problems I had translating this "explication" into Toki Pona:1) "other". I used "ante", but I'm not sure it's the best way to say this.2) "think about".  I used "pilin" modified directly by what follows "about": e.g. pilin pi jan ante (think about other people), pilin mi (think about me).3) "some".  I couldn't find a lexical equivalent for this, so I left it out.  It may be implied in the Toki Pona; I'm not sure.4) The individual lines of the English are lettered consecutively, and I have used the letters of Toki Pona in the same way, although I've ordered the vowels before the consonants.  This is an implicit numbering system, and could possibly be used for bigger numbers, up to 14, anyways (a e i o u j k l m n p s t w).  \[If the letters are used after "wan" and "tu", then "w" would be '16'.\]jan Setepo / stevo