---
author: "Rick Miller"
date: 2006-11-22T11:28:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
On 11/21/06, easternspring <[easternspring@yahoo.com](mailto://easternspring@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

> I think your perception is rather radical. TP won't be able to
> survive without the use of numbers like 4 or 5. "mute lili" is just
> too obscure.\[...\]
> I think that having the capability of saying things like 17 or 24 is
> crucial for any language, especially TP, if we TP'ns want it to be
> widely-used (and I do...).Have you read about the Pirahã people of the Maici River in Brazil?They have no numbers, and their lack of subordinate clauses is handledmuch the same as we do with "la" in TP. Even after researcher DanielEverett tried to teach them, they couldn't even count to ten. So your"little big numbers" are not "crucial" for a language itself.You should ask yourself what it is that you want TP to be widely used\*for\*. Do you want it to be popular asYet-Another-Constructed-Language? I don't. I would rather see morepeople try the experiment of changing the way they think, to see ifthey can fit their thoughts into Toki Pona's simplicity. I think it'shugely useful to have a gauge on the complexity level of my thoughts.
> As for your argument about my method of saying big numbers - I think
> that by adding the "-" and replacing "la" in "poka" the problems you
> pointed out are solved. I would'nt find it too dificult to
> understand that wan-poka-ala-poka-ala means one hundred...So now you're proposing TWO grammar changes (poka-digit numbers andhyphenated words) instead of just one. Why don't you just add somenumber words instead? Wan tu ti fo fa si se ... Then you wouldn'thave to change the grammar at all.
> Grammar, as to oppose to what you're arguing, is not an hermetically
> sealed doctrine which no body can alter or question. I think that if
> people can understand this method, and it's not confusing, it could
> be gramatically correct.I think not. Grammar is how we understand what part each word playsin a sentence. Your proposals are \*extensions\*. They don't mean whatyou want them to under the current grammar, and they run contrary tothe obvious and stated intent behind Toki Pona, that it be a simplelanguage to see whether people can think simply by using it.Toki Pona is an experiment along the lines of the Sapir-Whorfhypothesis. Can a person learn to think in a more simple way just bylearning a language that restricts complexity? In your case, I thinkthe experiment has returned a negative result.jan Wiko