---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2009-08-03T11:40:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
If the whole expression were the subject or an object in the sentence, e.g. misona pona e jan ni pi kalama musi EN pi pona mute lukin.---
 Liogab11 <[liogab11@yahoo.com](mailto://liogab11@yahoo.com)\
> schrieb am Mo, 3.8.2009:
> Von: Liogab11 <[liogab11@yahoo.com](mailto://liogab11@yahoo.com)\
>> Betreff: Re: \[tokipona\] "pi" suggestion
> An: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\
> Datum: Montag, 3. August 2009, 12:33
>>>>>>>>>>>>>  
>>>>>> Why would I want to say "jan pi
> kalama musi EN pi pona mute lukin" when I can just say
> "jan pi kalama musi li pona lukin mute"?
>>>> ---
 On Sun, 2/8/09, Helmut Voigt <akesi\_palisa@
> yahoo.de
> wrote:

>>>> From: Helmut Voigt <akesi\_palisa@
> yahoo.de
>>> Subject: \[tokipona\] "pi" suggestion
>> To: tokipona@yahoogroup
> s.com
>> Date: Sunday, 2 August, 2009, 6:24 PM
>>>>  
>>>> jan ali pi toki pona o, toki!
>>>>  
>>>> Some time ago, the problem of using several "pi"
> constructions in one sentence was discussed. Here are my
> suggestions for a possible solution:
>>>> If two pi expressions refer to one basic word, they should
> be separated by "en" as in "jan pi kalama
> musi EN pi pona mute lukin" = a very attractive
> singer" (both pi phrases refer to jan). If the second
> pi phrase refers to the first pi phrase, no "en"
> is necessary, as in "lon open pi tenpo sike pi nanpa tu
> la, jan lili li open tawa" (at the beginning of his
> second year, the baby begins to walk). Here, the first pi
> phrase refers to "open" and the second to
> "tenpo sike". Whoever dislikes these constructions
> is of course free to split such sentences up into two
> although this would increase the wordiness.
>>>> mi wile sona e pilin pi sina mute.
>>>> jan Elumutu
>>>> \[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> Get your new Email address!
>> Grab the Email name you've always wanted before
> someone else does!
>> [http://mail](http://mail).
> promotions. yahoo.com/ newdomains/ aa/
>>>> \[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>