---
author: "Francois Schwicker"
date: 2005-01-30T21:26:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
agneau belanyek <[agneau.belanyek@virgin.net](mailto://agneau.belanyek@virgin.net)\
> wrote:
---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), Marcos Cramer <marcos.cramer@b...
> wrote:

> jan Anjo li sitelen e ni:
> 
> 
> \[ref Marcos\] so that if i said "tenpo suno kama" that should be 
> 
> understood taking the time in which it was said into account as that 
> 
> is part of the context.)
> 
> taso ken la mi sona ala e ni: tenpo seme la sina sitelen e sitelen sina. \[i am allowed to go on because this is a different topic. but i have neither the courage nor inclination to do so in toki pona. imo talking about language rather than using it is not fundamental to tp. either that or i would hate to see toki pona develop into esperanto. all esperantists seem to talk about is esperanto. don't get me wrong i am not an anti-esperantist - au contraire! or should that be: Male!... anyway here goes:\]you have a point... but that's life!if you heard me out of context saying "mi wilemoku e telo jelo" you may think i am a very strange person...but (hopefully) if you had been aware of the context you would realise that i meant chinese tea, or lucozade, or cold mint infusion with honey(hmmm!), or even plain water with yellow colouring! all of which are as valid "telo jelo" as the usual.there is always a danger of misinterpreting things when out of context - even more so in tp where context is so important... and this applies just as well to knowing when↨something was said, if that is important to what is being said.agneaujan li tawa lon ma pi kasi suli. ona li lukin e jan ante. ona tu li wile toki. ni li ma pi toki pona. ma pi toki pona li pona lukin.jan KanseDo you Yahoo!? Yahoo! Search presents - Jib Jab's 'Second Term'