---
author: "Amelia Imperatrix"
date: 2004-07-28T02:15:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Japanese kana actually has symbols for 'wi' and 'we'; they aren't used inmodern Japanese but they can be found in anything written before 1946.'Ye' is the only symbol that doesn't exist in Japanese. Either a newsymbol could be used, a compound symbol 'ya+e' or similar, or use a symbolfor a combination that doesn't exist in TP (chi).Characters also work well; the problem is that the function words of TokiPona don't map well to Chinese and characters make it hard to representforeign words phonetically.jan LinalaOn Tue, 27 Jul 2004, Jim Henry wrote:

> Date: Tue, 27 Jul 2004 19:34:46 -0400 (GMT-04:00)
> From: Jim Henry <[jimhenry@pobox.com](mailto://jimhenry@pobox.com)\
>> Reply-To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\
> To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\
> Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: hieroglyphs for toki pona
>>> jan "herdtmann" li toki e ni:
>> 
>After learning toki pona for a week, I've got an idea - toki pona is
> 
>perfectly suited for hieroglyphic writing. Learn less than 120 symbols
> 
>is easy enough. All TP words will get a "visual appearance" this way.
>> A syllabary would work as well or better.
> 9 cononants X 5 vowels = 45 basic syllable signs
> Plus a diacritic or separate character to indicate
> syllable-final -n.
>> That way, you could write tokiponized proper names
> with the same writing system as the root words
> (unlike the proposal to use Chinese ideograms with
> roughly the same meanings as the toki pona root words).
>> We could adapt it from the katakana or hiragana,
> or start from scratch. Can't use hiragana
> as-is because it lacks signs for "wi" or "je"
> among others. But we could map the hiragana
> r-series to toki pona syllables starting with "l",
> and the h-series to syllables starting with "p", leaving
> only "wi", "we", "je". Japanese has "wo" and Toki Pona
> does not, so we could use the "wo" kana for our "we"
> and need only two new characters to invent or borrow
> from somewhere else.
>>> - Jim Henry
> Book review weblog: [http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/review/log.htm](http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/review/log.htm)\
>>>>> Yahoo! Groups Links
>>>>>>