---
author: "jean-luc DESTREE"
date: 2008-11-16 10:44:35 UTC
nestinglevel: 3
---
o toki !  
  
Your remarks about compulsion , personal or external, with example of "I must go to war", are very interesting and clever  
  
I agree with them, and it demonstrates one more time the flexibility of TP, without a lot of words  
  
o tawa pona  
  
jan Janluka  
  
Last night, I remarked this compound word in Wikipesija : "Nasin sewi pi jo e tan ale" ! perhaps it means : "Métaphysique" ?  
  
  
  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.comFrom: \*\*\*@virgin.netDate: Sun, 16 Nov 2008 10:11:04 +0000Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: how to say it good: must  
  
  
  
jan ale o, toki!--- In \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com, John E Clifford <\*\*\*@...> wrote:>> I always was disturbed by the two main meanings of > "wile" : "ought to/devoir" and "want/vouloir" , > it's absolutely not the same.> > jan Janluka> > As noted earlier, tp was founded by some meta-logicians. > Rather than looking for very precise notions they took the > general one "strong modal" and gave it a form 'wile' (and, of> course, "weak modal" and 'ken'). That is "a strong compulsion> drives \[subject\] to action/state \[infinitive\]." What that force> may be is left undeclared but can be specified -- if need be -- by> more prolix means (similarly for "no relevant force works against"> and 'ken'). The fundamental logic is the same throughout (though> even that claim is open to challenge) but the details differ.I think that part of the issue is that in toki pona, at least in usage and probably also by design, assertions are always made from the point of view of the speaker. (I think i have seen it described somewhere as toki pona being introspective). mi wile <verb>... therefore implies that the "strong compulsion" comes from the speaker. In this case, I don't think the difference between "ought to" and "want to" is significant. Either way, I feel strongly obliged to <verb>.when the compulsion is external (and this matters), i feel this ought to be explicitly stated, using some of the expressions we have seen. I must go to war is better expressed as "kulupu lawa li wile e ni: mi utala." than "mi wile utala" which suggests (in the absence of other context) that the compulsion comes from me "i.e. i want to go to war".however, if the fact that the compulsion is external to the speaker has been established in the context, then one can say "mi wile utala" without it being misunderstood as "i want to... "in a similar vein, i often see people writing "ni li pona tawa mi", where "ni li pona" probably means the same thing. "ni li pona" being understood as an expression of the speaker's opinion. I feel that "tawa mi" should only be added to stress that there is a difference in opinions. and if it is important to convey the fact that it is a general opinion, this ought to be specified or made clear by the context . (e.g. ni li pona tawa jan mute)jan Sowelilili  
  
  
  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Email envoyé avec Windows Live Hotmail. Dites adieux aux spam et virus, passez à Hotmail ! C'est gratuit !  
http://www.windowslive.fr/hotmail/default.asp  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]