---
author: "agneau belanyek"
date: 2008-11-12T23:28:46+00:00
nestinglevel: 4
---
> [_Post by toto1980toto1980toto1980_](/ovnpkDbt/how-to-say-it-good-must#post10)  
> 
> > [_Post by jean-luc DESTREE_](/ovnpkDbt/how-to-say-it-good-must#post3)  
> > 
> > > [_Post by jean-luc DESTREE_](/ovnpkDbt/how-to-say-it-good-must#post3)  
> > > Toki!How do members translate in the toki pona the following  
> > > 
> > 
> > sentence: "Imust love my homeland."?  
> > I think it should be said this way: ma mi li wile pona tawa mi.  
> > 
> 
> oops. Does that mean also "My coutry wish good to me"? Sorry. But  
> really isn't it a stupid idea that someone MUST love?  
> 

I think it is unwise to translate things out of context with any  
languages, but especially so with toki pona.  
  
Without any other info, I would take "I must love my homeland" not to  
mean that it is compulsory to love my homeland, but more to mean that  
it is desirable to love my home land.  
  
so I would say: mi olin e ma mama mi la, ni li pona.  
  
of course i might be wrong. it could well mean "i love my homeland  
very much." e.g. "I have never travelled more than 100 miles from  
where I was born. I must love my homeland".  
  
in which case i'd say: mi olin mute e ma mama mi.  
  
i take your point that the idea of compulsory love is absurd, even in  
English - but if that is REALLY what it means, the I would go with  
jan Kanso "mi wile olin a ma mama mi." (toki pona makes little  
distinction between intention and compulsion, especially when it  
refers to "mi")  
  
take "I must eat my veg"...  
  
If it means "I am resolved to, i fully intend to eat my veg" then I  
would say "mi wile moku e kili"  
  
but if (as it more likely does) it means that I am being made to eat  
my veg, say by person X, i would instead say: "jan X li wile e ni: mi  
moku e kili".