---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2008-07-17T14:47:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Maybe, toki suli is to mean "speak loudly"?jan Elumutu---
 Rick Miller <[rdmiller3@gmail.com](mailto://rdmiller3@gmail.com)\
> schrieb am Mi, 16.7.2008:Von: Rick Miller <[rdmiller3@gmail.com](mailto://rdmiller3@gmail.com)\
>Betreff: Re: AW: \[tokipona\] toki - mi sinAn: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comDatum](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comDatum): Mittwoch, 16. Juli 2008, 23:21On Wed, Jul 16, 2008 at 9:13 AM, Sam Chapman <sam\_acw@yahoo. co.uk
> wrote:

> mi lukin e lupa. mi lukin e jan lili mute, jan li musi li toki suli."mi lukin e lupa.""I see a hole."If you're looking \*through\* a door or window, I'm wondering why you'rebothering to mention it. Is it important? Could you just say whatyou see without mentioning the opening and still get basically thesame story?The second thing with a comma in the middle should be two separatesentences. The word "pona" also means \*simple\*. Subordinate clausesand sentences containing more than one idea are "ike".I'm assuming you were trying to say "I see some small people and theyare playing and (big-talking? )". I don't know what "toki suli" meanswithout more context. It could be that they're talking aboutimportant things or talking in a pretentiousmanner... dunno. Anyway,divide it up like so:"mi lukin e jan lili mute. ni li musi li toki suli."The word "jan" isn't a pronoun so you would use "ni".Now that I think about it, I'm starting to wonder why you even have tomention the fact that you \*see\* these people. Why not just say whatthey did? It should be self-evident that you either saw it or heardabout it somehow, and those details probably won't matter to youraudience.
> ale li pona, mi tawaAs I learned it, "ale" is depreciated because it sounds too close to"ala". "ali" is the preferred word. (I could be wrong.)I'm still curious what you were trying to say with "toki suli".jan WikoGesendet von Yahoo! Mail.Dem pfiffigeren Posteingang.