---
author: "jan Siwen"
date: 2006-05-31T22:03:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
jan Kasema, o taki!
> tenpo pi lipu Omniglot lukin, la mi lukin e toki pi tomo palisasuli Pape.This means "at the time of looking like Omniglot". Or "during thetime that looks like Omniglot".what is a "tomo palisa"? does it mean tower? If yes, then "suli"should not precede "Pape". tomo palisa Pape suli. The great tower ofBabel. if "tomo palisa" is not tower, but "tomo palisa suli" meanstower, then it's okay, grammatically. But I wouldn't call all towerstomo palisa suli, because that means a big "tomo palisa". Not simplya big and rod-like building. So it's useful to have the first twowords of the triplet have some actual meaning.How about this:"mi lukin e toki pi tomo palisa Pape suli lon lipu Omniglot."Assuming of course that an inofficial word can be introduced likethis at all. I don't know.
>tenpo pi nimi lukin,Again. At the time that looked like a word. Or at the time oflooking like a word. This is absolutely superfluous anyway. The lastsentence has established the context. "taso mi sona ala..."
> la mi sona ala e nimi tu. nimi tu ni li "iki" en "leko"."en" is used for separating the head nouns. "nimi tu li nimi "iki"li nimi "leko"." or simply "taso mi sona ala e nimi "iki" enimi "leko".
>mi pilin e ni: pilin "iki" li sama pilin "ona".Yeah, well, assuming that "pilin pi ijo" means the way somethingfeels to me. I don't know that it does. "pilin" can be a noun, butin that case it means emotion. The way someone feels. Not "the waysomething feels like". Maybe I am wrong. But I think that thecorrect way is something like this:nimi "iki" li pilin sama nimi "ona" tawa mi.
> taso pilin "leko" li pilin sona ala."taso mi sona ala e nimi "leko"."
> mi sona e ni: jan Sonja li ante e nimi pi tenpo pini. mi wilesona e nimi ni pi tenpo pini.Given that the first sentence established the temporal context(srry, mi smoka lotsa lotsa pot), "mi wile sona e nimi" would besufficient, I think. For me, at least, most of the beauty of TokiPona comes from the context-drivenness. I don't really speak it, Iam not fluent, I just write, but then I try to build up the picture,bit by bit, first the most important things, then all the detailsthat the language allow. Always ommitting everything that hasalready been established. But maybe you wouldn't like to do it thisway. I don't know.
> jan seme li ken pana e sona pi nimi pi tenpo pini? ona li ken, lami pilin pona."ona li ken" is a sentence. A sentence is not what we needpreceding "la". What we need is context word, like "sama", "ken",or "ante". or the word "tenpo".I think that the correct way of saying this is: "mi wile sona."or "mi wile sona e ni."
>> lipu Omniglot li lon ni: [http://www.omniglot.com/babel/tokipona.htm](http://www.omniglot.com/babel/tokipona.htm)\
>> en, jan seme li pali sitelen e toki pona kepeken sitelen pisitelen Inli ala?I don'tknow what "pali sitelen" means. Do you mean to write? sitelendoes mean "to write". And "en" has no such use. There is aninvisible "and" before every single toki pona sentence. Starting anew sentence means "and".
>mi sona e ni: jan
> wan li sitelen e toki pona kepeken sitelen Anku. jan seme lisitelen kepeken sitelen ante?I think that "sitelen" doesn't mean the language as a tool. I wouldsay "kepeken toki ...".
>> (Btw, is it good if I maybe leave a translation of what I write inenglish? I really don't know if I
> should leave questions like this only in Toki Pona. ^\_^;)Yeah, I think that's a good idea, but think best is to only writetoki pona when we have the energy to try to do it correctly. Andlet's try to correct each other's mistakes. Plus let's write stuff,let's put it online, and perfect it until it is considered good useby the "fluent speakers". (How do you say "euphemism" in toki pona?)Or, by most of us.I didn't want to link it until it's finished, it is half way done,but here is a translation of a children's book about marijuana. Iwill collect the unusual expressions I use for discussion when I amfinished.Here it is, so you can criticize my toki pona, now that I havecriticized yours :)[http://siphersh.tar.hu/kasitaso/ps](http://siphersh.tar.hu/kasitaso/ps).: Yes, iki means "ona", but I don't know about the other word.This is all I found:[http://www.angelfire.com/cantina/tokipona/text/oldword.html](http://www.angelfire.com/cantina/tokipona/text/oldword.html)