---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-08-29T23:42:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Rick Miller <[rdmiller3@gmail.com](mailto://rdmiller3@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> On 8/29/07, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

> 
> Happily, Lesson Six is just wrong. Were it correct, tp would be
> 
> like basic Piriha~, unable to express choices, hypothetical situations,
> 
> contingency planning and the like.
>> I don't think it would be so crippled as you say. Whether or not you
> assert the conditional depends upon how you introduce it...
>> "When you talk nonsense, I don't listen to you."
> ("Sometimes you talk nonsense. At that time, I don't listen to you.")
> tenpo la sina toki nasa.
> tenpo ni la mi kute ala e sina.
>> "If you talk nonsense, I won't listen to you."
> ("Maybe you talk nonsense. At that time, I won't listen to you.")
> ken la sina toki nasa.
> tenpo ni la mi kute ala e sina.
>> Prefacing the conditional with "ken la" or "tenpo la" tells whether
> it's going to be like the English "if" or "when", respectively.
>> Besides, I \*like\* having single-clause sentences.While I don't think that something like this is the way that tp should go, itdoes have certaininteresting properties. The main is, of course, a recursion-free grammar: no Sderived from ahigher S. Secondly, it satisfies Setepo's garden-pathing problem, since we aredealing with twosentences, the first clearly marked at the beginning (I suppose) as a condition(and the second,also presumably at the beginning, surely marked as conditioned). The detailsneed a bit of work,mainly to avoid a sag back into factivity, but that is mainly a matter ofconventions within theusual meanings of words. For example, I think that "pilin la" should beadequate to to move thefollowing sentence into a (merely) ideational realm, without any factualimplications (maybe eventhat I am actually thinking about it, though I have to be doing some thinking totalk about it atall). similarly, "ni la" clearly refers back to just the preceding(hypothetical) situation,without any implications that such an even actually occurs (as "tenpo ni" mightbe taken to do).Details like compound conditions would need some separate work, but compoundsentences are aproblem in tp already. And, I suppose there is a right-hand-end problem withinducedhypotheticals (as there is with so many things), which could be handled bystarting the firstrealis with "lon la" (but probably wouldn't be generally). (Piraha~ could worklike this since ithas epistemic validators like "observed" and "heard from reliable witnesses" andso could have"imagined." Several languages do; Piraha~ apparently doesn't.)