---
author: "Joop Kiefte"
date: 2009-02-27T19:08:12+00:00
nestinglevel: 1
---
\---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: <ISO639-\*\*\*@sil.org>  
Date: Fri, Feb 27, 2009 at 7:39 PM  
Subject: Re: Toki Pona language code  
To: Joop Kiefte <\*\*\*@gmail.com>  
Cc: Marcos Cramer <\*\*\*@gmail.com>  
  
  
  
Hello Joop,  
  
I think that the comment linked from the Change request documentation page (  
http://www.sil.org/iso639-3/chg\_detail.asp?id=2007-011) does explain the  
reason that the request was rejected at that time. As that document states:  
"If Toki Pona survives the next few years and continues to develop, both in  
applications and in user base, then the RA will be open to consider a new  
request for assignment of a code element for Toki Pona."  
  
If the extent of active use of Toki Pona is rapidly growing, and  
demonstrating a high likelihood of survival, then it is worthwhile to submit  
a new request for Toki Pona (the deadline is 1 September). Document the user  
community, uses and development efforts in which users are involved. It is  
evident from my cursory review that some growth has ocurred in that past 15  
months.  
  
With regard to World of Goo (and any other localization effort), and  
forvo.com, the approach depends on how they handle languages for which there  
is no specific identifier. I do not have a specific recommendation, but I  
suggest that a private use code may serve temporarily (any code in the range  
qaa to qtz). However, it would only be meaningful within the context of the  
system that assigned it, and as such it cannot be considered a long-term  
solution.  
  
Best regards,  
  
Joan Spanne  
ISO 639-3/RA  
SIL International  
7500 W Camp Wisdom Rd  
Dallas, TX 75236  
ISO639-\*\*\*@sil.org  
  
Feel free to copy the content of this email to your list group.  
  
  
  
\*Joop Kiefte <\*\*\*@gmail.com>\*  
  
2009-02-26 04:02 PM  
To  
iso639-\*\*\*@sil.org cc  
Marcos Cramer <\*\*\*@gmail.com>, \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Subject  
Toki Pona language code  
  
  
  
  
Hello,  
  
I tried to call and got somehow to the Ethnologue staff. The person there  
directed me finally to this address and to the website, and said he couldn't  
give me the number. So here is my mail.  
Some time ago we have submitted a form about Toki Pona to acquire a language  
code. The request received disapproval. I didn't see any motivation on this  
decission and I would like to see about that if possible.  
Now several times yet I wanted to translate something and needed a language  
code (World of Goo,  
\*http://tinyurl.com/wogwiki\*<http://tinyurl.com/wogwiki>, and  
\*forvo.com\* <http://forvo.com/>)  
In the first case the webmaster finally decided to use 'tp' as no other  
language than toki pona ever uses that code, and in the second case we  
finally decided to use x-tp (because of limited space in the database  
fields, otherwise we would have used x-tokipona). Now my questions are:  
\- When, which and how should I fill in forms again to apply for this year's  
round of language code assignment?  
\- What do you recommend in those cases mentioned to get the language  
properly registered in those systems?  
(I want to note furtheron that I carbon-copy this mail to several other  
people. The first one is the person who did the first request, the second  
one is the yahoo-list of Toki Pona speakers, to keep them up to date about  
this. It's however not all Toki Pona speakers who are in there, it is  
however the biggest group known to date keeping contact with each other in  
and about toki pona.)  
  
Thanks for your willingness to pay attention to this mail, and thanks for  
any reaction soon,  
  
Joop Kiefte,  
appointed moderator of the Yahoo list and fluent speaker of Toki Pona  
\--  
Communication is essential. So we need decent tools when communication is  
lacking, when language capability is hard to acquire...  
  
\- \*http://esperanto.net\* <http://esperanto.net/> - \*  
http://esperanto-jongeren.nl\* <http://esperanto-jongeren.nl/>  
  
Only those who attempt the absurd will achieve the impossible. I think it's  
in my basement... let me go upstairs and check.  
\- M. C. Escher  
\--  
Communication is essential. So we need decent tools when communication is  
lacking, when language capability is hard to acquire...  
  
\- http://esperanto.net - http://esperanto-jongeren.nl  
  
Only those who attempt the absurd will achieve the impossible. I think it's  
in my basement... let me go upstairs and check.  
\- M. C. Escher  
  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]