---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2009-02-28T13:37:41+00:00
nestinglevel: 1
---
ali o, toki!  
I think that the (still) small number of toki pona speakers is one of the main reasons for not accepting tp as an IAL. I don't know who the people are who decide on granting the IAL status to a new language and how deep their own knowledge of those languages is about the fate of which they have to decide (latent pessimism is obvious). The number of Lojban speakers is small as well, but maybe the inventors were more influential than jan Sonja, who knows? For me, Lojban is much too theoretical and - when spoken - hardly understandable (e.g., how does a full stop sound?). Nevertheless, I am open to be persuaded of the contrary if possible.  
I am and remain to be a tp defender!  
jan Elumutu  
  
\--- Joop Kiefte <\*\*\*@gmail.com> schrieb am Do, 26.2.2009:  
  
Von: Joop Kiefte <\*\*\*@gmail.com>  
Betreff: \[tokipona\] Toki Pona language code  
An: iso639-\*\*\*@sil.org  
CC: "Marcos Cramer" <\*\*\*@gmail.com>, \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Datum: Donnerstag, 26. Februar 2009, 23:02  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Hello,  
  
I tried to call and got somehow to the Ethnologue staff. The person there  
directed me finally to this address and to the website, and said he couldn't  
give me the number. So here is my mail.  
Some time ago we have submitted a form about Toki Pona to acquire a language  
code. The request received disapproval. I didn't see any motivation on this  
decission and I would like to see about that if possible.  
Now several times yet I wanted to translate something and needed a language  
code (World of Goo, http://tinyurl. com/wogwiki , and forvo.com)  
In the first case the webmaster finally decided to use 'tp' as no other  
language than toki pona ever uses that code, and in the second case we  
finally decided to use x-tp (because of limited space in the database  
fields, otherwise we would have used x-tokipona). Now my questions are:  
\- When, which and how should I fill in forms again to apply for this year's  
round of language code assignment?  
\- What do you recommend in those cases mentioned to get the language  
properly registered in those systems?  
(I want to note furtheron that I carbon-copy this mail to several other  
people. The first one is the person who did the first request, the second  
one is the yahoo-list of Toki Pona speakers, to keep them up to date about  
this. It's however not all Toki Pona speakers who are in there, it is  
however the biggest group known to date keeping contact with each other in  
and about toki pona.)  
  
Thanks for your willingness to pay attention to this mail, and thanks for  
any reaction soon,  
  
Joop Kiefte,  
appointed moderator of the Yahoo list and fluent speaker of Toki Pona  
\--  
Communication is essential. So we need decent tools when communication is  
lacking, when language capability is hard to acquire...  
  
\- http://esperanto. net - http://esperanto- jongeren. nl  
  
Only those who attempt the absurd will achieve the impossible. I think it's  
in my basement... let me go upstairs and check.  
\- M. C. Escher  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]