---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-06-03T11:51:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I think the problem is more the other way. If you want to say that someone is agood person (inany of a number senses), you do not necessarily mean that they are a friend ofyours (or anyone,for that matter). Yoou can recommend a stranger (atleast in a face to facesese) for a jobwithout a hint of cronyism.---
 galactonerd <[galactonerd@yahoo.com](mailto://galactonerd@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

> I don't know... if someone is truly a friend, that person is a good
> person to you. And good people may be good, but they aren't your
> good people.
>> In English, one can say, "Sarah is a friend," and you would
> understand that Sarah is a friend of the person talking. But if you
> just looked at the words, all you would know is that she's someone's
> friend; you might ask, "A friend of whom?"
>> In Toki Pona, "jan Sawa li jan pona" would sound strange; it would
> make more sense to say, instead, "jan Sawa li pona." But if you want
> to say that Sarah is your friend, you can say, "jan Sawa li jan pona
> mi." This would translate literally to "Sarah is my good person."
> Even in English, it would be understood that Sarah is the friend of
> the speaker.
>> So, I don't really see a need to change "jan pona."
>> jan Sosuwa
>> ---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), MorphemeAddict@... wrote:

> 
>> 
> In a message dated 5/21/2007 9:23:26 AM Central Daylight Time,
> 
> clifford-j@... writes:

> 
>> 
>> 
> 
> (when was the last time someone mentioned a friend with anything
> other
> 
> 
> than "jan pona"?
> 
>> 
> I'm still trying to come up with an improvement on "jan pona",
> which is truly
> 
> an idiom, as a friend is not always a 'good person'. And good
> people aren't
> 
> always friends.
> 
>> 
> jan Setepo / stevo </HTML
>> 
>>>>