---
author: "galactonerd"
date: 2007-06-03T17:39:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Yeah, that's why I'd say "jan ni li pona" instead of "jan ni li janpona."jan Sosuwa---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), John E Clifford <clifford-j@...
>wrote:

>> I think the problem is more the other way. If you want to say thatsomeone is a good person (in
> any of a number senses), you do not necessarily mean that they area friend of yours (or anyone,
> for that matter). Yoou can recommend a stranger (atleast in a faceto face sese) for a job
> without a hint of cronyism.
>> ---
 galactonerd <galactonerd@...
> wrote:

>> 
> I don't know... if someone is truly a friend, that person is agood
> 
> person to you. And good people may be good, but they aren't your
> 
> good people.
> 
>> 
> In English, one can say, "Sarah is a friend," and you would
> 
> understand that Sarah is a friend of the person talking. But ifyou
> 
> just looked at the words, all you would know is that she'ssomeone's
> 
> friend; you might ask, "A friend of whom?"
> 
>> 
> In Toki Pona, "jan Sawa li jan pona" would sound strange; itwould
> 
> make more sense to say, instead, "jan Sawa li pona." But if youwant
> 
> to say that Sarah is your friend, you can say, "jan Sawa li janpona
> 
> mi." This would translate literally to "Sarah is my goodperson."
> 
> Even in English, it would be understood that Sarah is the friendof
> 
> the speaker.
> 
>> 
> So, I don't really see a need to change "jan pona."
> 
>> 
> jan Sosuwa
> 
>> 
> ---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), MorphemeAddict@ wrote:

> 
> 
>> 
> 
> In a message dated 5/21/2007 9:23:26 AM Central Daylight Time,
> 
> 
> clifford-j@ writes:

> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> (when was the last time someone mentioned a friend withanything
> 
> other
> 
> 
> 
> than "jan pona"?
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> I'm still trying to come up with an improvement on "jan pona",
> 
> which is truly
> 
> 
> an idiom, as a friend is not always a 'good person'. And good
> 
> people aren't
> 
> 
> always friends.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> jan Setepo / stevo </HTML
>> 
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>>