---
author: "Matthew Martin"
date: 2007-10-04T18:31:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\
> kulupu jan pi ma suli   race?citizenry.  Race would be hard to translate--
 like honor, it has a lot of meanings that change depending on the context. kulupu jan pi kule sama --
 race as the word is used in the US kulupu jan pi mama sama--
 kinsmen kulupu jan pi ma ale --
 the human race kulupu jan pi toki sama --
 e.g. hispanic race (membership determined by language spoken, not by color, ancestry) kulupu jan pi lon ante --
 'people of a different life'
>neoantidisestablishmentarianism - ha! That word is something of a urban legend.  No one uses it except to talk about long words with lots of morphemes, so to utter "neoantidisestablishmentarianism" in a sentence means I am about to talk about long words.nimi kalama pi kulupu nimi pi linja mute.  String of sentences of noisy words - sequipedalian 
>pali e kasi nasa        "do" weed? Roll a joint, fill a pipe?jan pi ma pan li pali e kasi nasa e kasi pan.  The farmer grows hemp and wheat.jan sama ona li kon e kasi nasa ona, taso ni kasi li nasa ala.  His brother tries to smoke it, but hemp has no effect.Hmm, translation doesn't quite work if you can't distinguish marijuana and hemp.
>tenpo ni   ... at that time (indicated by previous sentence)   old usage, just not noted?tenpo kama la tomo tawa li tawa sama waso.  tenpo ni la nasin li ike tan sijelo pona.   In the future cars will fly, then roads will be dangerous.tenpo pini la jan ale li lon uta pi ma suli. tenpo ni la tomo li lete. In the past people lived in caves. Back then, homes were cold.
> sitelen e linja draw a line, make a distinction need "line between A and B" how "between"?ona li sitelen e linja tan ni mi tawa ni ante.  They drew a line from here by me to over thereona li sitelen e linja tan ni sina tawa ni ante.  They drew a line from there by you to over thereBy any chance do you have the consolidated of community created phrases? mi tawa,jan Matthew Martin