---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-10-04T21:38:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Matthew Martin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> wrote:

> 
> kulupu jan pi ma suli race?
> citizenry.
>> Race would be hard to translate--
 like honor, it has a lot of meanings that
> change depending on the context.
>> kulupu jan pi kule sama --
 race as the word is used in the US
> kulupu jan pi mama sama--
 kinsmen
> kulupu jan pi ma ale --
 the human race
> kulupu jan pi toki sama --
 e.g. hispanic race (membership determined by
> language spoken, not by color, ancestry)
> kulupu jan pi lon ante --
 'people of a different life'
>> 
>neoantidisestablishmentarianism -
> ha! That word is something of a urban legend. No one uses it except to
> talk about long words with lots of morphemes, so to utter
> "neoantidisestablishmentarianism" in a sentence means I am about to talk
> about long words.Actually, as an Episcopalian, I keep up with what is happening in the motherchurch, the Church ofEngland, and this puppy has come around again again.
> nimi kalama pi kulupu nimi pi linja mute. String of sentences of noisy
> words - \*sequipedalian\*I hate to keep saying this, but this is backweards of your explanation: noisywords of sentencesof many lines (where it is not clear whether it is the sentences (presumably) orthe words thattake up a lot of lines. hysteron proteron.
> 
>pali e kasi nasa "do" weed? Roll a joint, fill a pipe?
> jan pi ma pan li pali e kasi nasa e kasi pan. The farmer grows hemp and
> wheat.
> jan sama ona li kon e kasi nasa ona, taso ni kasi li nasa ala. His brother
> tries to smoke it, but hemp has no effect.Presumably "kasi ni" and an implicit 'e ona' ay yjr rnd (problematic, since theperson whosebrother we want to refer to has already been called 'ona' --
 an ongoingproblem).
> Hmm, translation doesn't quite work if you can't distinguish marijuana and
> hemp.
>> 
>tenpo ni ... at that time (indicated by previous sentence) old usage,
> just not noted?
> tenpo kama la tomo tawa li tawa sama waso. tenpo ni la nasin li ike tan
> sijelo pona. In the future cars will fly, then roads will be dangerous.
> tenpo pini la jan ale li lon uta pi ma suli. tenpo ni la tomo li lete. In
> the past people lived in caves. Back then, homes were cold.Wjhich leaves the problem of how to jop back to now.
> 
> sitelen e linja draw a line, make a distinction need "line between A and
> B" how "between"?
> ona li sitelen e linja tan ni mi tawa ni ante. They drew a line from here
> by me to over there
> ona li sitelen e linja tan ni sina tawa ni ante. They drew a line from
> there by you to over thereThis is the literal sense, of course, but it would be nice to come up qith a tpidiom for thefigurative sense.
> By any chance do you have the consolidated of community created phrases?Yes and no. I have about 1500 items and about half ot them have been integratedinto an earlierdictionary. the other half have not been but are in four alphabetized sublists.The whole is andExcel file, if you want to look at it and can handle that.
> mi tawa,
>> jan Matthew Martin
>