---
author: "Matthew Martin"
date: 2007-10-04T21:44:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Biological taxonomy is a challenge in toki pona--
 I probably gave up too early.  Interestinly biology frequently is no help in picking a suitable word!  Biologist split the world into vertibrates, invertibrates, mammals, fish, reptiles, plants, fungus, bacteria, etc.  None of these map to the tp taxonomy.Toki pona tends to split the world into categories by usage, characteristics, desirability, etc.  Getting down below a class or order level would require resorting to arbitrary idioms or lengthy characteristics lists.On the species level, Cannabis for hemp and marijuana are the same species (Cannabis sativa), but different varieties. Not that that helps pick a word, but it was interesting.Plants by usagekasi len--
 textile plant, e.g. hemp, cotton, etc.kasi nasa--
 narcotic plant, huge list here, from belladonna to opiumkasi len nasa--
 hempMaybe plants should be dealt with the same way place names are, eg.jan ma kasi li pali e kasi mani Cannabis. The farmer was growing hemp.jan ma lili kasi li pali e kasi nasa Cannabis. The gardener was growing pot.With the only draw back being that transliteration is not predictable, could be from any language and is generally barely unrecognizable from its source word, e.g. Kanapi  (sounds like canapes, french hors d'oeuvres)jan Matthew MartinOn 10/4/07, Josan Kapo <[mail@jonathangabel.com](mailto://mail@jonathangabel.com)\
> wrote:

> 
>pali e kasi nasa "do" weed? Roll a joint, fill a pipe?
> jan pi ma pan li pali e kasi nasa e kasi pan. The farmer grows hemp and
> wheat.
> jan sama ona li kon e kasi nasa ona, taso ni kasi li nasa ala. His brother
> tries to smoke it, but hemp has no effect.
> 
> Hmm, translation doesn't quite work if you can't distinguish marijuana and
> hemp.kasi pi ilo linja - hemp, sisal etc. ?