---
author: "B. J. Knight"
date: 2007-08-12T00:12:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I think "ona li lape anpa" is a good phrase for "he sat down." BecauseJesus was sitting down during the sermon, he was probably morecomfortable and relaxed than he would have been if he had beenstanding, so I consider "lape" to be entirely appropriate here. Thepicture that I included of Jesus sitting down with a child in his lapreinforces this idea. Furthermore, Jesus actually sat down, as if toshow that he wanted people to feel closer to him. This stands in sharpcontrast to earlier parts of the Bible such as when Moses delivers theTen Commandments. Therefore, for me, "anpa" is an essential part ofthe translation.If you have suggestions on how to improve the translation rather thanjust vaguely saying I must have made some mistake, I'd be glad to haveyour input.--
 Pije---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), Francois Schwicker <bubi4919@...
> wrote:

>> Good News Translation Pije's Toki Pona translation
> Notes
> Matthew 5:1 - 5:2 Jesus saw the crowds and went up a
> hill, where he sat down. His disciples gathered round
> him, and he began to teach them: jan Jesu li lukin e
> kulupu jan li tawa sewi nena. ona li lape anpa. jan
> nasin ona li tawa poka ona. jan Jesu li pana e sona
> tawa ona:
>>> "ona li lape anpa" for : "Where he sat down" ? There
> must be an error somewhere !
>> jan Kanso
>>>>>\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\\\_\_\_\_
> Pinpoint customers who are looking for what you sell.
> [http://searchmarketing.yahoo.com/](http://searchmarketing.yahoo.com/)\
>