---
author: "Francois Schwicker"
date: 2007-08-12T15:47:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
The problem is, "lape" suggests a laying position. Tosuggest a sitting position in tp, I only know "supamonsi", for chair. But, obviously, there was no chair,and Jesus sat down on the ground. So I propose aperhaps somewhat awkward translation, but whoseadvantage would be to translate the idea of a sittingposition, too : " ... li tawa sewi nena li kepeken ema sama supa monsi."jan KansoPS : the German translation of Martin Luther just says: "und setzte sich" (and sat) and not "und setzte sichnieder" (and sat down).---
 "B. J. Knight" <[bknight009@yahoo.com](mailto://bknight009@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

> I think "ona li lape anpa" is a good phrase for "he
> sat down." Because
> Jesus was sitting down during the sermon, he was
> probably more
> comfortable and relaxed than he would have been if
> he had been
> standing, so I consider "lape" to be entirely
> appropriate here. The
> picture that I included of Jesus sitting down with a
> child in his lap
> reinforces this idea. Furthermore, Jesus actually
> sat down, as if to
> show that he wanted people to feel closer to him.
> This stands in sharp
> contrast to earlier parts of the Bible such as when
> Moses delivers the
> Ten Commandments. Therefore, for me, "anpa" is an
> essential part of
> the translation.
>> If you have suggestions on how to improve the
> translation rather than
> just vaguely saying I must have made some mistake,
> I'd be glad to have
> your input.
>> --
 Pije
>> ---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), Francois Schwicker
> <bubi4919@...
> wrote:

> 
>> 
> Good News Translation Pije's Toki Pona
> translation
> 
> Notes
> 
> Matthew 5:1 - 5:2 Jesus saw the crowds and went
> up a
> 
> hill, where he sat down. His disciples gathered
> round
> 
> him, and he began to teach them: jan Jesu li
> lukin e
> 
> kulupu jan li tawa sewi nena. ona li lape anpa.
> jan
> 
> nasin ona li tawa poka ona. jan Jesu li pana e
> sona
> 
> tawa ona:
> 
>> 
>> 
> "ona li lape anpa" for : "Where he sat down" ?
> There
> 
> must be an error somewhere !
> 
>> 
> jan Kanso
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>>\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\\\_\_\_\_
> 
> Pinpoint customers who are looking for what you
> sell.
> 
> [http://searchmarketing.yahoo.com/](http://searchmarketing.yahoo.com/)\
> 
>>>>\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\\\_\_\_\_Be a better Globetrotter. Get better travel answers from someone who knows.Yahoo! Answers - Check it out.[http://answers.yahoo.com/dir/?link=list&sid=396545469](http://answers.yahoo.com/dir/?link=list&sid=396545469)