---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-08-12T20:16:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
But, but but...! Nothing suggests that "lape" means anything but sleep orsomething close to it:rest --
 which is different from relaxation, as the phrase suggests). Besides,"relaxing down"sounds like falling into a crumpled heap. That being said, I have no goodsuggestion for "sit"("using the ground as a chair" is sorta anti-tp, where presumably the ground isprimary and achair --
 if one exists at all --
 is derivative. Maybe just "anpa e monsi ona","dropped hisbutt."---
 "B. J. Knight" <[bknight009@yahoo.com](mailto://bknight009@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

> I think "ona li lape anpa" is a good phrase for "he sat down." Because
> Jesus was sitting down during the sermon, he was probably more
> comfortable and relaxed than he would have been if he had been
> standing, so I consider "lape" to be entirely appropriate here. The
> picture that I included of Jesus sitting down with a child in his lap
> reinforces this idea. Furthermore, Jesus actually sat down, as if to
> show that he wanted people to feel closer to him. This stands in sharp
> contrast to earlier parts of the Bible such as when Moses delivers the
> Ten Commandments. Therefore, for me, "anpa" is an essential part of
> the translation.
>> If you have suggestions on how to improve the translation rather than
> just vaguely saying I must have made some mistake, I'd be glad to have
> your input.
>> --
 Pije
>> ---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), Francois Schwicker <bubi4919@...
> wrote:

> 
>> 
> Good News Translation Pije's Toki Pona translation
> 
> Notes
> 
> Matthew 5:1 - 5:2 Jesus saw the crowds and went up a
> 
> hill, where he sat down. His disciples gathered round
> 
> him, and he began to teach them: jan Jesu li lukin e
> 
> kulupu jan li tawa sewi nena. ona li lape anpa. jan
> 
> nasin ona li tawa poka ona. jan Jesu li pana e sona
> 
> tawa ona:
> 
>> 
>> 
> "ona li lape anpa" for : "Where he sat down" ? There
> 
> must be an error somewhere !
> 
>> 
> jan Kanso
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>>\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\\\_\_\_\_
> 
> Pinpoint customers who are looking for what you sell.
> 
> [http://searchmarketing.yahoo.com/](http://searchmarketing.yahoo.com/)\
> 
>>>>