---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2008-04-25T13:05:38+00:00
nestinglevel: 1
---
galactonerd <\*\*\*@yahoo.com> schrieb: mi lukin e lipu pi toki Losupan (Lojban). ona li ante e toki ni tawa  
toki Losupan:  
  
"pretty little girls' school"  
  
lon toki pona la, mi toki e ni:  
  
"tomo sona pi meli lili pi lukin pona" anu "tomo sona lili pi lukin  
pona pi meli lili"  
<< The original English phrase is ambiguous, and so is the first tp phrase. In the second phrase, you have added a "lili" which means that the school as well as the girls are little which is more than what the English phrase says. As I'm not a native speaker of English, I'm not sure whether a school can be "pretty" at all but I feel it cannot. Therefore, I would split the phrase up and say something about "tomo sona" in a first sentence and then ". meli lili pi pona lukin li tawa tomo sona ni."  
Generally, I prefer to avoid multiple pi phrases in one sentence. If they cannot be avoided, I think that (A pi BC) pi D li ... is correct, as a sequence of single-word attributes also always refers to A.  
jan Elumutu>>>  
taso mi kepeken e toki ni pi nanpa wan la, mi sona ala e ni: seme li  
jo e lukin pona: meli lili anu tomo sona?  
  
sina lukin e toki ni lon lipu pi toki pona la, ni li toki seme tawa sina?  
  
mi wile sona tan ni: mi sona ala e ni: lon toki pona la, "A pi B pi C"  
li "A pi (B pi C)" anu "(A pi B) pi C?"  
  
jan Sosuwa  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\---------------------------------  
Gesendet von Yahoo! Mail.  
Mehr Möglichkeiten, in Kontakt zu bleiben.