---
author: "salikh.zakirov"
date: 2009-07-22 16:29:52 UTC
nestinglevel: 0
---
mi kama sona e toki pona. toki pona li pona tawa mi.  
  
Mi wile lukin e lipu mute pi nimi pi toki pona. Tempo ali la, nimi lili pi toki pona li jo e sona.  
Tan ni la, nimi lili mute pi toki toki pona li jo e sona mute kin. Jan ali li ken kepeken e nimi ali.  
Tan ni la, jan sama ala li lukin la, nimi sama li ken jo e sona sama ala.  
Taso, sona pi nimi mute wan li musi. Tan ni la, mi wile lukin e sona nimi mute.  
  
Tenpo lili pini la, mi kute e ni: jan John Clifford li jo e lipu mute pi nimi mute.  
Nimi li mute mute. Mi wile lukin e lipu mute ni. Ona li lon ala lon ilo Internet?  
Mi ken ala ken lukin e ona?  
Sina toki tawa mi e lipu mute pi nimi la, sina pana pona tawa mi.  
Pona mute!  
  
Hi! (\* English translation is a richer and approximate translation of toki pona \*)  
This message is addressed to John Clifford.  
  
I study toki pona. I like it.  
I would like to see a dictionary of toki pona word phrases. At all times, all toki pona words maintain  
their individual primitive meanings. For this reason, word phrases always can have many meanings.  
(\* and so \_normative\_ toki pona dictionary is neither possible, nor desired, according to the will of Kisa, as far as I understand it \*)  
Anyone can use any words. Threrefore, different people may see different meanings in same word phrases.  
However, it is interesting how word phrases accrue meaning. That's why I would like to see a word phrase collection.  
  
Recently, I heard that John Clifford has quite a large collection of tokipona word phrases.  
I would like to see it. Is it available anywhere on the internet?  
Is there any chance to see it?  
I would greatly appreciate, if you tell me about this glossary.  
Thank you very much!  
  
(\* Words that I am not exactly sure how to express:  
to mean = jo e sona  
meaning = sona nimi  
dictionary = lipu \[mute\] pi nimi mute  
word phrase = nimi mute wan \*)  
  
(\* P.S. Corrections and comments are welcome from anyone, not just Mr. Clifford \*)