---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2009-07-25 03:01:39 UTC
nestinglevel: 1
---
pona a! toki sina li wile e toki mi lili. 'tenpo' not 'tempo' (though it is pronounced that way and every other language spells it that way -- we have almost all done this). Probably, 'jan ante, rather than 'jan sama ala' which can (more naturally?) mean 'no siblings' Looking at the trat, I would suggest 'kulupu nimi' for 'word phrases'. (The tp dictionary is a list of things that people have used for various purposes. If you have the same purpose, you might want to use one of their efforts. Or make a better one on our own. I expect that some will become idioms (indeed, several have already) but that will just be norma loquendi, not rules from the dictionary in the sky -- or on the web, which amounts to the same thing). I don't follow 'sona pi nimi mute wan li musi' even with the t  
rat: 'One meaning of many words (or the meaning of 'one many words') is amusing -- sorry I am forgetting some meaning in the outer reaches of some of these words.  
What I have is a couple of excel files (en-tp, tp-en) which list most of the translations of words or phrases that I have isolated from the texts on this list and a few other websites. It is now about a year out of date, with some recent updates and needs a thorough revision for all sorts of technical reasons. It also has a temporary status since jan Sonja is working on something official. But, if you have excel and I can manage to send it to you, you are welcome to have it.  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
From: salikh.zakirov <\*\*\*@yahoo.com>  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Sent: Wednesday, July 22, 2009 11:29:52 AM  
Subject: \[tokipona\] toki! en lipu mute pi nimi pi toki pona  
  
  
mi kama sona e toki pona. toki pona li pona tawa mi.  
  
Mi wile lukin e lipu mute pi nimi pi toki pona. Tempo ali la, nimi lili pi toki pona li jo e sona.  
Tan ni la, nimi lili mute pi toki toki pona li jo e sona mute kin. Jan ali li ken kepeken e nimi ali.  
Tan ni la, jan sama ala li lukin la, nimi sama li ken jo e sona sama ala.  
Taso, sona pi nimi mute wan li musi. Tan ni la, mi wile lukin e sona nimi mute.  
  
Tenpo lili pini la, mi kute e ni: jan John Clifford li jo e lipu mute pi nimi mute.  
Nimi li mute mute. Mi wile lukin e lipu mute ni. Ona li lon ala lon ilo Internet?  
Mi ken ala ken lukin e ona?  
Sina toki tawa mi e lipu mute pi nimi la, sina pana pona tawa mi.  
Pona mute!  
  
Hi! (\* English translation is a richer and approximate translation of toki pona \*)  
This message is addressed to John Clifford.  
  
I study toki pona. I like it.  
I would like to see a dictionary of toki pona word phrases. At all times, all toki pona words maintain  
their individual primitive meanings. For this reason, word phrases always can have many meanings.  
(\* and so \_normative\_ toki pona dictionary is neither possible, nor desired, according to the will of Kisa, as far as I understand it \*)  
Anyone can use any words. Threrefore, different people may see different meanings in same word phrases.  
However, it is interesting how word phrases accrue meaning. That's why I would like to see a word phrase collection.  
  
Recently, I heard that John Clifford has quite a large collection of tokipona word phrases.  
I would like to see it. Is it available anywhere on the internet?  
Is there any chance to see it?  
I would greatly appreciate, if you tell me about this glossary.  
Thank you very much!  
  
(\* Words that I am not exactly sure how to express:  
to mean = jo e sona  
meaning = sona nimi  
dictionary = lipu \[mute\] pi nimi mute  
word phrase = nimi mute wan \*)  
  
(\* P.S. Corrections and comments are welcome from anyone, not just Mr. Clifford \*)  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]