---
author: "salikh.zakirov"
date: 2009-07-25 05:12:47 UTC
nestinglevel: 2
---
pona mute a!  
  
tenpo ni, mi toki sitelen e toki Inli.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/nTriw1kr/toki-en-lipu-mute-pi-nimi-pi-toki-pona#post2)  
> toki sina li wile e toki mi lili.  
> 

Nice way to describe cause! :)  
"Your text requires some comments from me", I suppose?  
  
It seems to me, this very language use defies intended purpose of toki pona: to clearly define who wants or does what. It is very amusing to see how the language lives and grows out of the walls set out by its creator.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/nTriw1kr/toki-en-lipu-mute-pi-nimi-pi-toki-pona#post2)  
> 'tenpo' not 'tempo' (though it is pronounced that way and every  
> other language spells it that way -- we have almost all done this).  
> 

Indeed. I try to correct this whenever I notice, but fingers stubbornly want to type "tempo".  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/nTriw1kr/toki-en-lipu-mute-pi-nimi-pi-toki-pona#post2)  
> Probably, 'jan ante', rather than 'jan sama ala' which can (more  
> naturally?) mean 'no siblings'  
> 

I stand corrected.&#12288;Thanks!  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/nTriw1kr/toki-en-lipu-mute-pi-nimi-pi-toki-pona#post2)  
> Looking at the trat, I would suggest 'kulupu nimi' for 'word phrases'.  
> 

Thanks! I was trying to use 'nimi mute wan' as 'many words united', but the meaning apparently haven't got through. I agree that 'kulupu nimi' sounds better.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/nTriw1kr/toki-en-lipu-mute-pi-nimi-pi-toki-pona#post2)  
> The tp dictionary is a list of things that people have used for  
> various purposes. If you have the same purpose, you might want to  
> use one of their efforts. Or make a better one on our own. I  
> expect that some will become idioms (indeed, several have already)  
> but that will just be norma loquendi, not rules from the dictionary  
> in the sky -- or on the web, which amounts to the same thing).  
> 

100% agreed. In fact, I am very glad to hear such an opinion, as multiple tokiponists comments on the net suggest that the two extremist camps: "idiomatic dictionaries are required" or "idioms are unacceptable, you need to construct meaning each time in the context" prevail.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/nTriw1kr/toki-en-lipu-mute-pi-nimi-pi-toki-pona#post2)  
> 'One meaning of many words (or the meaning of 'one many words') is  
> amusing -- sorry I am forgetting some meaning in the outer reaches  
> of some of these words.  
> 

What I intended was 'meaning of word phrases is interesting'.  
Sorry for the awkward english text, because it was backward translation from toki pona.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/nTriw1kr/toki-en-lipu-mute-pi-nimi-pi-toki-pona#post2)  
> What I have is a couple of excel files (en-tp, tp-en) which ...  
> It also has a temporary status since jan Sonja is working on  
> something official. But, if you have excel and I can manage to  
> send it to you, you are welcome to have it.  
> 

Yes, I would very much appreciate if you send it to me  
Either to this address or 'salikh LON gmail com'.  
Thank you very much!