---
author: "salikh.zakirov"
date: 2009-07-27T07:20:03+00:00
nestinglevel: 2
---
pona mute a!  
  
tenpo ni la, mi toki sitelen lon toki Inli.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/nTriw1kr/toki-en-lipu-mute-pi-nimi-pi-toki-pona#post2)  
> toki sina li wile e toki mi lili.  
> 

"Your text requires some comments", I suppose?  
Nice way to show cause! It seems to me that this particular  
phrase defeats the limitations of the language, that jan Sonja  
has set up in order to have clear definition of "who wants what"  
by the language means.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/nTriw1kr/toki-en-lipu-mute-pi-nimi-pi-toki-pona#post2)  
> Probably, 'jan ante, rather than 'jan sama ala' which can  
> (more naturally?) mean 'no siblings'  
> 

I stand corrected, thanks.  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/nTriw1kr/toki-en-lipu-mute-pi-nimi-pi-toki-pona#post2)  
> Looking at the trat, I would suggest 'kulupu nimi' for 'word phrases'.  
> 

I was trying to use 'nimi mute wan', but apparently the meaning is not obvious, and 'kulupu nimi' sounds better. Thanks!  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/nTriw1kr/toki-en-lipu-mute-pi-nimi-pi-toki-pona#post2)  
> The tp dictionary is a list of things that people have used for  
> various purposes. If you have the same purpose, you might want to  
> use one of their efforts. Or make a better one on our own.  
> I expect that some will become idioms (indeed, several have  
> already) but that will just be norma loquendi, not rules from the  
> dictionary in the sky -- or on the web, which amounts to the same  
> thing).  
> 

100% agreed. I am very happy to hear such an opinion, while prevailing in the internet comments are from two extreme camps:  
"idioms are not acceptable in tokipona, you need to construct meaning each time in context" and "tokipona require idiom dictionary".  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/nTriw1kr/toki-en-lipu-mute-pi-nimi-pi-toki-pona#post2)  
> I don't follow 'sona pi nimi mute wan li musi' ...  
> 

I was intending "meaning of word phrases is interesting".  
But this should probably had been:  
'sona pi kulupu nimi li musi tawa mi'  

> [_Post by John E Clifford_](/nTriw1kr/toki-en-lipu-mute-pi-nimi-pi-toki-pona#post2)  
> What I have is a couple of excel files (en-tp, tp-en) ...  
> But, if you have excel and I can manage to send it to you, you are  
> welcome to have it.  
> 

I would be more than happy if you can send the files to  
'salikh LON gmail.com'  
Thank you very much!