---
author: "MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com"
date: 2006-09-10T00:28:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Sometimes "e" is not used when it seems like maybe it should be.  From Lesson 6 of the online course:[http://tokipona.esperanto-jeunes.org/lesson/lesson6.html%3C%3CtawaUsing](http://tokipona.esperanto-jeunes.org/lesson/lesson6.html%3C%3CtawaUsing) tawa as a verbHopefully you understood lon well, because tawa is similar to it. Like lon, tawa doesn't have an e after it.   mi tawa tomo mi. --
 I'm going to my house.   ona mute li tawa utala - They're going to the war.   sina wile tawa telo suli. --
 You want to go to the ocean.  ona li tawa sewi kiwen. --
 She's going up the rock.      Note that sewi as used in this sentence is a noun. A more literal       translation of that sentence is "She's going to the top (of) the rock."The reason that lon and tawa don't have an e after them is that there is no object. For example, in the sentence "I'm going to my house," the speaker simply went home. He did not do anything to his house, he just went to it. If he had burned the house down or had tried to do something to it or affect it in some way, then e would come after the verb. Otherwise, no e.
>>This explanation puzzles me.  It says there is no "e" because there is no object, but there \*is\* something after the verb.  What is it? It says this is not an object because nothing is done to the thing that is gone to.  But "e" is used for the direct object of many verbs, e.g., "lukin", "olin", "toki", which do not in any way affect their objects.  E.g., if I see you (mi lukin e sina) I do not affect you; you most likely won't even be aware that I see you unless you see me too, or I tell you that I see you.So what is the real reason that "e" is not used in the examples above?  jan Setepo / stevo