---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-05-10T16:34:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Marcos CRUZ <[tokipona@alinome.net](mailto://tokipona@alinome.net)\
> wrote:

> 
> "o toki mi li ni" makes a bit more sense as it is just
> 
> an undirected wish (or hope or whatever in that line
>> An empty vocative followed by a normal sentence? Or is it an
> imperative for the whole sentence, not just for "toki mi"? I don't
> understand what you mean.What you called a volitive, I think. Probably one use of Esperantoimperative-as-subjunctive.
> 
> Or (at a stretch) "mi wile ni e toki mi"
>> That looks not grammatical to me. What "ni" is supossed to be there?
> A "wile"-compound verb like in "mi wile jo e X" or a modifier for
> "wile"?Well, if "ni" is a verb (call it for now) then I can want it to hold true ofsomething, whiochsomething typically turns up as object. Strictly, I suppose, it is that I wantto bring it aboutthat that something is ni, but my role often drops out in these cases.
> Perhaps "mi wile e ni: toki mi li ni:"?
>> 
> or even "toki mi li wile ni".
>> This one is very interesting. But perhaps "wile" has too wide meaning
> for the aim of the original."Wile" is any strong modal, "should be" is a possible reading (though one thatfeels strange atfirst glance --
 messages don't have wills, either).
> Anyway, I think my "toki mi o ni" is bad. The normal way is simpler
> and clearer: "toki mi li ni (pona/sin/kin):"But that does cover over the fact that your message wasn't thus but that youwant to change it towhat you think it should have been. "toki mi li pakala. mi wile toki e ni:..."