---
author: "AJK"
date: 2007-09-26T09:52:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I often just put ala after the place-indicator. mi lon ala lon ni 
> mi lon ni ala. This way one in fact uses a synonym to circumvent. But I would like to know how Sonja thinks about this.The kin-solution is quite neat, in fact.jan Mimoku2007/9/26, Helmut Voigt <[akesi_palisa@yahoo.de](mailto://akesi_palisa@yahoo.de)\
>:To make "It doesn't exist in the dict." clearer, I would propose ona li lon ala kin lon nimi ale. So it is clear that the second lon is used as a preposition. "Is it a dictionary" would be ni li (lipu pi) nimi ale anu seme? "He didn't go to the office": ona li tawa ala tomo pali. In the third example, "use" requires an object. jan ElumutuMatthew Martin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> schrieb: 
>>soweli tomo mi li lon ala lon insa pi tomo mi.
>"Is my cat in my house?"Ha! I didn'tnotice that until everyone pointed it out. Here arethree more of the same pattern.ona li lon ala lon nimi ale. It doesn't exist in the dictionary. Itisn't in the dictionary. (Is it a dictionary?)ona li tawa ala tawa tomo pali. He didn't go to the office. (Did he goto the office?)ona li kepeken ala kepeken kon insa. He didn't use with inhalation. (Ok, I cheated, strictly speaking kepeken is transitive and the ephrase would make it unambiguous)mi tawa,jan Matthew Martin Yahoo! Clever: Stellen Sie Fragen und finden Sie Antworten. Teilen Sie Ihr Wissen. --
 Ĉar Dio tiel amis la mondon, ke Li donis Sian solenaskitan Filon, por ke ĉiu, kiu fidas al li, ne pereu, sed havu eternan vivon.-Johano 3:16, La sankta Biblio-Ĝoju ĉiam, preĝu senĉese, pri ĉio donu dankon.-1 Tesalonikanoj 5:16-18a, La sankta Biblio-