---
author: "Sonja Elen Kisa"
date: 2002-05-11T18:09:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
jan sin o, kama pona!Yvon, welcome! I am currently in the process of rewriting the lessons, and that is why you may find gaps in the vocabulary, with some words not properly introduced yet. In answer to your questions: My dog went for a walk in the park.soweli mi li tawa lon ma (kasi).My dog is walking in the outdoor-space (of plants). The big dog behind the tree is very happy.soweli suli li lon monsi kasi, li pilin pona mute.The big dog is located at the back of the tree, and he is very happy. Sentences like the 2nd are broken up into 2 sentences. There is indeed a way to expess the "subject of previous sentence". Simply tack on another "li" + verb and it's assumed the subject is still the same, as in the example above. Here's another example of breaking up a more complex sentence into its simple separate ideas: I saw the man that you love.mi lukin e mije. sina olin e iki.I saw the man. You love him. I welcome other translation questions you may have. I will show you how Toki Pona simplifies our thoughts to easy simple ideas. Sonja/Marraskuu-----
Original Message-----
From: Yvonna Ware \[mailto:[yvon@charter.net](mailto://yvon@charter.net)\] Sent: May 10, 2002 7:13 PMTo: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSubject](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSubject): \[tokipona\] New MemberGreetings, my nam is Yvon. I recently discovered Toki Pona, via someone's signature on slashdot. I know only English. I have never become bilingual because I did not have the option when I was in school, and do not have the time now... nor do I know anyone who is strongly familiar with another language who could teach me. I am going to learn Toki Pona because I have always wished to learn a new language, and Toki Pona is different enough from English that it is more than simply a 'code book' of changed phrases... it has different sentence structure, which is more difficult than simple word changes. And, (god and my wife willing) I will learn it well enough to teach it to my children as they grow up. I have already convinced a few of my friends to learn the language (though I am not sure whether they will actually follow through with their interest). I am currently working on a rewrite and extension of the Toki Pona lessons from the website. I wish the full lesson list to cover all the words in the language, and to also fix it so the examples and lessons never refer to words that have not yet been introduced. I'm hoping that by the end of making the lessons, I will have come a long way to being comfortable with the language myself... though really, only daily usage can do that. Now that my long winded introduction is complete, I have a couple questions... How do I say this: My dog went for a walk in the park. In particular, the difficulty I am having is how to properly extend sentences beyond the subject-verb-object syntax. I do not know if it is even legal to do so, if I should use english conventions or some other syntax. pet (people animal) owned by me ??? walked in the park (good city outdoors)soweli jan li jo e me ?li? tawa e ma tomo mute pona(another translation of "park": kasi mute insa tomo mute (many trees in many buildings). I prefer the first translation for brevity, though the latter is more precise) How about: soweli jan li jo e me. ni li tawa e ma tomo mute pona.(The dog belongs to me. It walked in the park) I am uncertain if 'ni' can be used as a neutral 'it', but it seems close to legal. I don't have to break the subject-verb-object syntax this way. But I would be more comfortable if there was a word specifically to refer to 'the subject of the previous sentence', since Toki Pona relies so much on compound words and sentences to refer to things. How should I legally join those parts? Is it even possible in Toki Pona? To properly word it, would I need to reorder the sentence somehow (similar to how 'liking' something requires significant rewording)? Thanks for your help, and keep up the good work Sonja.To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:[tokipona-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.comYour](mailto://tokipona-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.comYour) use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.