---
author: "catsom ^-^"
date: 2003-01-11T04:23:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
hm- I may or may not have attended the same class as Avril, but I, too, took a class. It was an hour long, part of the MIT Splash weekend: a weekend of courses for mostly high school students to take... Basically you paid the one-time fee and then took as many courses as you could fit in. Math, Science, Politics... some random stuff. The two language intro classes available were Toki Pona and Esperanto. Soo.. to answer your questions as if they were directed at me:-Mass. Institute of Tech.-Jacob Schwartz, student (I'm pretty sure)-I think he found out about the site from a friend.. he wasn't completely fluent-It was the last class possible to take, Sunday evening, so it was overcrowded and not very focused. I would have liked to have learned a good deal of the vocabulary as to start practicing at home, but I am happy that by attending the class I was able to get the official site's URL. It gave me the possibility to learn \*I'm still working on it (^\_^;;) \*, and that's all you can really expect from a one-hour language course, no matter how simplified the language is. -Lauren-----
 Original Message -----
 From: [kurum3@aol.com](mailto://kurum3@aol.com) To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com) Sent: Friday, January 10, 2003 5:38 PMSubject: Re: \[tokipona\] new memberHey Avril I was wondering what type of class on Toki Pona you had taken. If I remember correctly, I recently saw a site somewhere that offered a day-course type of thing about Toki Pona. Toki Pona has quite a small community, so I was wondering how there could be a class about it. Where is the class taught at? Who teaches it? How do they know Toki Pona? How much did you learn?