---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2008-01-16T21:04:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
toki!mi sin lon toki tomo ni. mi wile pana E sitelen ni tawa sina. ni lisitelen (PI) NANPA wan mi. I'm new on this forum. I'd like to share this translation I have madewith you. This is my first attempt at translating anything to tokipona. please feel free to coment on it. The text is a Buddhist text, not that I'm trying to convert anybody. Ijust wanted the face the challenge of translating such a thing intotoki pona.First will come the text in toki pona, the English translation willfollow. kama sona e jan Puta insa lon tenpo lon ni.? O KAMA SONA E JAN PUTA? "Get to know Buddha"  not quite what meant; maybe  "o kama sama e  jan Puta"?   This is still an imperative, not a title.  I suggest a paraphrase: say, 'ona li ken kama sama e jan Puta.  ni li nasin:"Maybe "lon insa tenpo pi lon ni" though I am not sure about using the spatial notion for time.tenpo pini pi lon wan ala la, sina kepeken tan kama lon en moli.  ?tenpo pini pi lon mute?   What does "kepeken" mean here?  What do you use and for what?  I take this to be a (quite appropriate) unpacking of all you may want to be free of, to be referred back to at a useful time.  "Suffering" is presumably something involving "pakala," though no one seems to have worked out the details. Maybe just ' kama lon en moli li pakala e sina'sinawile kepeken ala tan ni la, sina wile lukin e lawa ale pi lon ale piinsa jan ale.Then 'sina wile ala e pakala ni la'   'LON insa jan ali'sina wile kama sona e suno LON insa sina la, SINA wile lukin elawa ale pi lon ale pi LON insa jan ale. lawa ni nimi ?'nimi pi lawa ni'? li Myoho-Renge- Kyo.?Mijowolenkikijo?sina kama sona e lawa ale pi lon ale pi insa jan ale la, sina poki enimi Myoho-Renge- Kyo. ?toki?  The English seems to say the opposite: "If you chant the mantra, you will come to know the ..."jan Nichiren.On attaining Buddhahood in this lifetime. If you wish to free yourself from the sufferings of birth ans deathyou have endured since time without beginning and to attain withoutfail unsurpassed enlightenment in this lifetime, you must perceive themystic truth that is originally inherent in all living beings. Thistruth is Myoho-renge- kyo. Chanting Myoho-renge- kyo will thereforeenable you to grasp the mystic truth innate in all life. Nichiren. Looking for last minute shopping deals? Find them fast with Yahoo! Search.