---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2008-01-20T21:19:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\-----
 Original Message ----
From: yragael.malbos <[yragael.malbos@yahoo.fr](mailto://yragael.malbos@yahoo.fr)\
>To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent): Saturday, January 19, 2008 7:53:32 PMSubject: \[tokipona\] Re: sitelen nasin sewi putatoki,jan John E Clifford toki e ni:? O KAMA SONA E JAN PUTA? "Get to know Buddha" not quite what meant; maybe "o kama sama e jan Puta"? This is still an imperative, not a title. I suggest a paraphrase: say, 'ona li ken kama sama e jan Puta. ni li nasin:" Maybe "lon insa tenpo pi lon ni" though I am not sure about using the spatial notion for time.What about:  "tenpo ni la, o kama sona e jan Puta insa"?jan John E Clifford toki e ni: What does "kepeken" mean here? What do you use and for what? I take this to be a (quite appropriate) unpacking of all you may want to be free of, to be referred back to at a useful time. "Suffering" is presumably something involving "pakala," though no one seems to have worked out the details. Maybe just ' kama lon en moli li pakala e sina'en ni: sina poki e nimi Myoho-Renge- Kyo.   ?toki? Yes, I did mean to write "pakala" instead of "kepeken", and "toki" instead of "poki". I guess I went to fast and I got mixed up with these words which are quite close.  jan John E Clifford toki e ni:sina wile kepeken ala tan ni la, sina wile lukin e lawa ale pi lon ale piinsa jan ale. Then 'sina wile ala e pakala ni la' 'LON insa jan ali' sina wile kama sona e suno LON insa sina la, SINA wile lukin e lawa ale pi lon ale pi LON insa jan ale. lawa ni nimi    ?'nimi pi lawa ni'?  li Myoho-Renge- Kyo. ?Mijowolenkikijo? Thank you for correcting my mistakes.I would not translate Myoho-Renge- Kyo. It is not translated into English, French or any other language. Though it is writen in a way it could be read in any language, toki pona hasn't got enough letters. However, your proposition isn't bad. It would be better to say "MijowolenKEkijo" to stay close to the japonese prononciation. As jan jo has pointed out, this has the familiar nalme in english of "Lotus sutra" or, in Skt "Saddharma Pundarkia" or "Sutra of the Lotus of the Good (Genuine, Real) Law"  Putting any of that into tp doesn'tr seem to be a real option (although Skt "sat" is pretty clearly tp "lon" in a lot of ways).jan John E Clifford toki e ni:sina kama sona e lawa ale pi lon ale pi insa jan ale la, sina poki e nimi Myoho-Renge- Kyo.  ?toki? The English seems to say the opposite: "If you chant the mantra,you will come to know the ..."You are right here. maybe it would be better to say:sina poki e nimi Myoho-Renge- Kyo (Mijowolenkekijo) la, sina kama sona e lawa ale...Thank you for the feed back.mi tawa.jan Yragaël (Ilakajeli? or Ilakajen?) Looking for last minute shopping deals? Find them fast with Yahoo! Search.