---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2009-05-15T15:02:03+00:00
nestinglevel: 3
---
Oops! just 'ni li ilo mi' ('pi' needs two words after it -- another problem with the predicative 'pi').  
  
  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
From: John E Clifford <\*\*\*@yahoo.com>  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Sent: Friday, May 15, 2009 9:57:05 AM  
Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] Re: mi sona ale li toki pona  
  
  
  
  
  
Well, 'sina pali seme e ni' doesn't seem to mean 'What did you make with this' since 'seme' is not the object of 'pali' but rather a modifier ('ni' is the object, see the 'e'). So it means something like 'You made this whatly' where any adverb might be the appropriate answer. That is, it means 'How did you make this' in the broadest sense' where answers like 'well' or 'expensively' etc. might do. 'kepeken nasin seme' apparently would limit the scope some what: to 'by hand' or 'on a lathe' or some such. (I'm not sure this is literally true, since 'well' is a way of soing things after all, but I think the convention is as I lay it out here. 'kepeken ilo seme' is even more restrictive, surely.)  
The various renditions of 'I don't know how to speak well in tp' seem right, though I would use 'kepeken' rather than 'lon' -- but jan Sonja goes the other way. I would probably cut to the chase and just say 'mi toki pona ala kepeken toki pona' (the 'know how to' seems a frill and tp is unfrilly).  
  
The remarks here about the vagueness of 'ma ni li pona lukin tawa mi' make a point always to keep in mind -- namely, that context always plays a central role in understanding a tp utterance. In tis case, 'ma' covers everything from the whole planet to a clod, so getting it down to the present view is hard in a single sentence.  
I am wary of 'pi' as a verb/predicate adjective maker. I woulld probably say -- if I were thinking -- 'ni li ilo pi mi' and just avoid the problem.  
'mi mute li pali e wile mi mute tan ken mi mute' looks overly complex, but the hypothetical form, 'mi ken pali e ijo la mi wile pali e ni,' don't seem to say the same thing, which seems clearly to require that I do want/have to do it. So, 'mi wile pali e ijo li ken pali e ni. tan ni la mi pali e ni' is better, but still conmplex. I would use 'mi mute li wile pali e ijo tan ni: mi mute li ken pali e ijo ni.' (the original also misses the mark some what, saying something like 'we make our necessity because of our ability,' whatever that means -- I'm pretty sure it is not what anyone intended)  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_  
From: jan\_sewe <\*\*\*@laposte. net>  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroup s.com  
Sent: Friday, May 15, 2009 7:36:33 AM  
Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: mi sona ale li toki pona  

> [_Post by Xavier Aubuchon-Mendoza_](/iQMrldRJ/mi-sona-ale-li-toki-pona#post1)  
> ...which, if I said it right, should mean "I don't know how to speak well." Not sure how I would say "...in the language Toki Pona."  
> 

According to what you really mean, there are several possibilities:  
  
mi sona ala e ali pi toki pona (I don't know everything about TP)  
mi ken ala toki pona lon toki pona (I can't speak well in TP)  
mi sona pona ala e toki pona (I don't know TP well)  

> [_Post by Xavier Aubuchon-Mendoza_](/iQMrldRJ/mi-sona-ale-li-toki-pona#post1)  
> In lesson 11, we learn that you can say  
> sina pali e ni kepeken nasin seme? -- You made this using what method? How did you make this?  
> ...but, could you also say  
> sina pali seme e ni  
> You made (in some manner I don't know) this? In what manner did you make this?  
> Of course, it's not quite the same question as by what method did you make this - I'm simply curious if it's a legitimate formation.  
> 

The sentence "sina pali seme e ni" doesn't really mean "How did you make this?" but rather "What did you make with this?". "kepeken nasin seme" is actually the best translation of "how". I sometimes use "sama seme" (like what) but it's not as clear.  

> [_Post by Xavier Aubuchon-Mendoza_](/iQMrldRJ/mi-sona-ale-li-toki-pona#post1)  
> Also...  
> ma li pona lukin tawa mi  
> "the countryside is good looking to me"  
> ...is this properly formatted? I'm trying to understand the 'no clause' aspect of the language, but this confuses me. Could somebody point to some examples of which sentences need to be split up when translated and which don't?  
> 

"ma li pona lukin tawa mi" is good Toki Pona, but it will be heard with the intended meaning "the countryside is good looking to me" only if you're indeed watching the coutryside, or if there's a picture of it above your text, or if you've already been speaking about the coutryside, and so on. In Toki Pona it's the context that makes the meaning. Adding a precision like "ma ni" can be usefull, if not indispensable.  
  
You have to split your sentence up when it's too complicated to be expressed without a la-clause. And if it still remains too complicated, then just try to say the same thing in a simpler way.  
  
The syntax "ilo ni li pi sina" is a clever invention of jan Pije's, but I'm not sure many of us do use it actually. Most of the time, TP will force you to speak more directly.  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]