---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2008-08-14T22:03:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Somewhere back a little there is a sketch of a story about the beginning of tp among the survivors of a worldwide catastrophe, who coe together in the only good place left.-----
 Original Message ----
From: andrew49097 <[andrew49097@yahoo.com](mailto://andrew49097@yahoo.com)\
>To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comSent): Saturday, August 9, 2008 9:30:51 PMSubject: \[tokipona\] Re: Toki-Pona-speaking cultureIt's funny, I imagine something simular, yet opposite of a desert. I imagine if toki pona were to have occurred naturally, it would have been on an isolated tropical island. Sort of like a desert in the sense that it is isolated and such. Then again, I could have just thought that sense the language resembles something like Hawai'ian or Japanese. Either way, toki pona would have been spoken by a close knit group or tribe as you said. And, in fact isn't it spoken by a "small group" at the time being? Interesting thought.jan Anti (Andy)---
 In tokipona@yahoogroup s.com, "galactonerd" <galactonerd@ ...
> wrote:

>> What are your thoughts on what a Toki-Pona-apeaking culture might be 
> like? I imagine they would live in a desert, with a lifestyle somewhat 
> like the Kalahari bush tribes, because the small vocabulary suggests 
> that there aren't a whole lot of things to name. I would also guess 
> that it started out as some kind of creole, because of its lack of 
> metaphorical language.
> 
> Any other ideas?
> 
> jan Sosuwa
>