---
author: "frpeterjackson"
date: 2008-08-15T13:41:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
tempo sunu pini la mi lukin e toki Tok Pisin li mi kama sona e ni:toki ni li sama mute poka toki pona. ijo nanpa wan la toki pona likepeken e nimi "li". kepeken nasin sama la toki Tok Pisin li kepeken enimi "i". mi sona ala e ni: ni li kama tan toki Tok Pisin.tan ni la nasin pi toki pona li sama poka nasin pi jan Tok Pisin.I was recently looking at Tok Pisin, and I realized how much toki ponais based on it. E.g., the use of a predicate marker ("li" in tokipona; "i" in Tok Pisin) after third person, but not after first orsecond person. (I always thought this was clever, but I didn't realizeit was adopted from Tok Pisin.)So it would make sense to imagine our "culture" as being moreisland-based, not just because of Tok Pisin, but because of otherpidgins and creoles of a similar nature.jan Pita---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "andrew49097" <andrew49097@...
>wrote:

>> It's funny, I imagine something simular, yet opposite of a desert. I
> imagine if toki pona were to have occurred naturally, it would have
> been on an isolated tropical island. Sort of like a desert in the sense
> that it is isolated and such. Then again, I could have just thought
> that sense the language resembles something like Hawai'ian or Japanese.
> Either way, toki pona would have been spoken by a close knit group or
> tribe as you said. And, in fact isn't it spoken by a "small group" at
> the time being? Interesting thought.
>> jan Anti (Andy)
>>>>> ---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "galactonerd" <galactonerd@
> wrote:

> 
>> 
> What are your thoughts on what a Toki-Pona-apeaking culture might be
> 
> like? I imagine they would live in a desert, with a lifestyle
> somewhat
> 
> like the Kalahari bush tribes, because the small vocabulary suggests
> 
> that there aren't a whole lot of things to name. I would also guess
> 
> that it started out as some kind of creole, because of its lack of
> 
> metaphorical language.
> 
>> 
> Any other ideas?
> 
>> 
> jan Sosuwa
> 
>>