---
author: "Liogab11"
date: 2008-08-16T13:02:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I like the idea of Toki Pona being spoken on a deserted island. But I was just thinkingif it's also possible to imagine a group of forest people using the language. SometimesI imagine a castaway tribe speaking in Toki Pona. I can also imagine Toki Pona being spoken in a desolate Artic/Antartic region. mi taso li lonjan ala li lon poka mimun li pana e sunoona li suno e telo oko mi jan Pusa  ---
 On Fri, 15/8/08, frpeterjackson <[frpeterjackson@yahoo.com](mailto://frpeterjackson@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:
From: frpeterjackson <[frpeterjackson@yahoo.com](mailto://frpeterjackson@yahoo.com)\
>Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: Toki-Pona-speaking cultureTo: [tokipona@yahoogroups.comDate](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.comDate): Friday, 15 August, 2008, 9:41 PMtempo sunu pini la mi lukin e toki Tok Pisin li mi kama sona e ni:toki ni li sama mute poka toki pona. ijo nanpa wan la toki pona likepeken e nimi "li". kepeken nasin sama la toki Tok Pisin li kepeken enimi "i". mi sona ala e ni: ni li kama tan toki Tok Pisin.tan ni la nasin pi toki pona li sama poka nasin pi jan Tok Pisin.I was recently looking at Tok Pisin, and I realized how much toki ponais based on it. E.g., the use of a predicate marker ("li" in tokipona; "i" in Tok Pisin) after third person, but not after first orsecond person. (I always thought this was clever, but I didn't realizeit was adopted from Tok Pisin.)So it would make sense to imagine our "culture" as being moreisland-based, not just because of Tok Pisin, but because of otherpidgins and creoles of a similar nature.jan Pita---
 In tokipona@yahoogroup s.com, "andrew49097" <andrew49097@ ...
> wrote:

>> It's funny, I imagine something simular, yet opposite of a desert. I 
> imagine if toki pona were to have occurred naturally, it would have 
> been on an isolated tropical island. Sort of like a desert in the sense 
> that it is isolated and such. Then again, I could have just thought 
> that sense the language resembles something like Hawai'ian or Japanese. 
> Either way, toki pona would have been spoken by a close knit group or 
> tribe as you said. And, in fact isn't it spoken by a "small group" at 
> the time being? Interesting thought.
> 
> jan Anti (Andy)
> 
> 
> 
> 
> ---
 In tokipona@yahoogroup s.com, "galactonerd" <galactonerd@ 
> wrote:

> 
>> 
> What are yourthoughts on what a Toki-Pona-apeaking culture might be 
> 
> like? I imagine they would live in a desert, with a lifestyle 
> somewhat 
> 
> like the Kalahari bush tribes, because the small vocabulary suggests 
> 
> that there aren't a whole lot of things to name. I would also guess 
> 
> that it started out as some kind of creole, because of its lack of 
> 
> metaphorical language.
> 
> 
> 
> Any other ideas?
> 
> 
> 
> jan Sosuwa
> 
>> New Email addresses available on Yahoo! Get the Email name you've always wanted on the new @ymail and @rocketmail.Hurry before someone else does!