---
author: "andrew49097"
date: 2008-08-18T17:05:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
It's just fun to speculate. Obviously, since Toki Pona is constructedit lacks certain things that a language of "evolution" would haveadapted. This keeps the language pure like toki pona is. It hasn'thad the time to become polluted. So, perhaps a group was plopped in adeserted place, and to establish common ground, toki pona arose as apidgin. Therefore toki pona would be a young, less complex language,as it is.-jan Anti (Andy)---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), John E Clifford <kali9putra@...
>wrote:

>> I think the point of the remnants in the last good place was toexplain the etymology of tp words. Ignoring that, the desert islemakes sense --
 except that such isolated (literally) languages tendto be much more complex that tp (so do contact languages, come tothat).
>>>> -----
 Original Message ----

> From: Liogab11 <liogab11@...
>> To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\
> Sent: Saturday, August 16, 2008 8:02:37 AM
> Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] Re: Toki-Pona-speaking culture
>>> I like the idea of Toki Pona being spoken on a deserted island. ButI was just thinking
> if it's also possible to imagine a group of forest people using thelanguage. Sometimes
> I imagine a castaway tribe speaking in Toki Pona.
>> I can also imagine Toki Pona being spoken in a desolateArtic/Antartic region.
>> mi taso li lon
> jan ala li lon poka mi
> mun li pana e suno
> ona li suno e telo oko mi
>> jan Pusa
>>>>> ---
 On Fri, 15/8/08, frpeterjackson <frpeterjackson@ yahoo.com
>wrote:

>> From: frpeterjackson <frpeterjackson@ yahoo.com
>> Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: Toki-Pona-speaking culture
> To: tokipona@yahoogroup s.com
> Date: Friday, 15 August, 2008, 9:41 PM
>>> tempo sunu pini la mi lukin e toki Tok Pisin li mi kama sona e ni:
> toki ni li sama mute poka toki pona. ijo nanpa wan la toki pona li
> kepeken e nimi "li". kepeken nasin sama la toki Tok Pisin likepeken e
> nimi "i". mi sona ala e ni: ni li kama tan toki Tok Pisin.
>> tan ni la nasin pi toki pona li sama poka nasin pi jan Tok Pisin.
>> I was recently looking at Tok Pisin, and I realized how much tokipona
> is based on it. E.g., the use of a predicate marker ("li" in toki
> pona; "i" in Tok Pisin) after third person, but not after first or
> second person. (I always thought this was clever, but I didn'trealize
> it was adopted from Tok Pisin.)
>> So it would make sense to imagine our "culture" as being more
> island-based, not just because of Tok Pisin, but because of other
> pidgins and creoles of a similar nature.
>> jan Pita
>> ---
 In tokipona@yahoogroup s.com, "andrew49097" <andrew49097@ ...
>> wrote:

> 
>> 
> It's funny, I imagine something simular, yet opposite of adesert. I
> 
> imagine if toki pona were to have occurred naturally, it wouldhave
> 
> been on an isolated tropical island. Sort of like a desert in thesense
> 
> that it is isolated and such. Then again, I could have justthought
> 
> that sense the language resembles something like Hawai'ian orJapanese.
> 
> Either way, toki pona would have been spoken by a close knitgroup or
> 
> tribe as you said. And, in fact isn't it spoken by a "smallgroup" at
> 
> the time being? Interesting thought.
> 
>> 
> jan Anti (Andy)
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> ---
 In tokipona@yahoogroup s.com, "galactonerd" <galactonerd@ 
>wrote:

> 
> 
>> 
> 
> What are your thoughts on what a Toki-Pona-apeaking culturemight be
> 
> 
> like? I imagine they would live in a desert, with a lifestyle
> 
> somewhat
> 
> 
> like the Kalahari bush tribes, because the small vocabularysuggests
> 
> 
> that there aren't a whole lot of things to name. I would alsoguess
> 
> 
> that it started out as some kind of creole, because of its lackof
> 
> 
> metaphorical language.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> Any other ideas?
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> jan Sosuwa
> 
> 
>> 
>>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> New Email addresses available on Yahoo!
> Get the Email name you've always wanted on the new @ymail and@rocketmail.
> Hurry before someone else does!
>