---
author: "galactonerd"
date: 2008-08-20T23:49:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Well, my reasoning is that since there's only one word covering allliquids ("telo" instead of water, rain, ocean, etc.), it must be adesert, with the occasional oasis (hence the existence of theword "kala"--
fish live in these waters); since there's only word forthe whole plant kingdom and one word for each class of animals, theremust not be a whole lot of animals or plants in that region, andthose that are there look pretty much alike (that is, all mammalslook alike, all reptiles look alike, etc.); since there are words forhot and cold, the desert they live in must get really hot during theday and really cold at night, and all they have for protection aretents called "tomo."Those are my thoughts on the matter, anyway.jan Sosuwa---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), Sam Chapman <sam\_acw@...
> wrote:

>> I would have thought any tribe or primitive society would need fargreater ability to describe plants and animals. I see it as beinga "spiritual" language of formal languag not an everyday one.
>> ---
 On Sun, 10/8/08, andrew49097 <andrew49097@...
> wrote:

> From: andrew49097 <andrew49097@...
>> Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: Toki-Pona-speaking culture
> To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\
> Date: Sunday, 10 August, 2008, 3:30 AM
>>>>>>>>>>>> It's funny, I imagine something simular, yet oppositeof a desert. I
>> imagine if toki pona were to have occurred naturally, it would have
>> been on an isolated tropical island. Sort of like a desert in thesense
>> that it is isolated and such. Then again, I could have just thought
>> that sense the language resembles something like Hawai'ian orJapanese.
>> Either way, toki pona would have been spoken by a close knit groupor
>> tribe as you said. And, in fact isn't it spoken by a "small group"at
>> the time being? Interesting thought.
>>>> jan Anti (Andy)
>>>> ---
 In tokipona@yahoogroup s.com, "galactonerd" <galactonerd@ ...
>wrote:

>> 
>>> 
> What are your thoughts on what a Toki-Pona-apeaking culture mightbe
>> 
> like? I imagine they would live in a desert, with a lifestyle
>> somewhat
>> 
> like the Kalahari bush tribes, because the small vocabularysuggests
>> 
> that there aren't a whole lot of things to name. I would alsoguess
>> 
> that it started out as some kind of creole, because of its lackof
>> 
> metaphorical language.
>> 
>>> 
> Any other ideas?
>> 
>>> 
> jan Sosuwa
>> 
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> Send instant messages to your online friendshttp://uk.messenger.yahoo.com
>