---
author: "Francois Schwicker"
date: 2006-05-29T19:26:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Hello Siwen,My English is perhaps not so fluent as yours, althoughit is better than my Hungarian ...Your style is very "square", objective andunderstandable. I bet, after a wile, when you get moreused to Toki pona, it will become more poetic ...Actually, I try to write in Tokipona in a rather"biblic" style, with many rhythmic repetitions, whichmakes little changes very obvious ...You can also consider it after the well knowncomparison between "European" and "Asian" style, e.g.- (translation from French) : "An accident, whichcaused two victims, occurred yesterday on highway 40.A bus fell into a ravine, after the driver lostcontrol"- (the same, translated from Bahasa Indonesia) :"Yesterday bus on highway 40.Driver lose control.Bus fall in ravine.Two victims."I find, the Bahasa version in much more funny !It is a very interesting exercise for someone who isused to very flexible (but complex, too) Westernlanguages (Hungarian included !)to express oneselfwith very simple words and in a strict chronologicalorder. Maybe it is good for the brain and thesynapses, too !You wrote :"toki e li lon". I think, you want to say :"toki ni li lon" ("e" in toki pona is "-t" inHungarian).tenpo ni la meli mi li kama. tan ni la mi wile pini esitelen mi. tenpo kama lili la mi sitelen sin.o awen pona ! jan Kanso---
 jan Siwen <[siphersh@daath.hu](mailto://siphersh@daath.hu)\
> wrote:

> Hello, Francois,
>> Do you speak English?
>> I like the way you drift the title of the arguments
> from "taki"
> to "pilin" as they arrive at the wise man. The
> difference between
> the two words appears to be the difference between
> abstract,
> constructed reality and direct experience. The wise
> man ask how they
> feel about the question, and thus he makes all of
> them talk the
> truth.
>> And the moral of the story is: absurd is what you
> make absurd.
> toki nasa li toki pi jan nasa.
>> Anyways. Here's my version, I wonder what you think
> about it.
>> jan tu li utala toki.
> jan pi nanpa wan li toki e ni: sike mama waso wan li
> mama pi waso
> ali.
> jan pi nanpa tu li toki e ni: waso kin wan li mama
> pi sike mama waso
> ali.
>> jan pona li kama tawa jan tu pi utala toki li kute e
> utala toki.
> jan pi utala toki li toki e ni tawa jan pona kama:
> jan pona ni li
> toki e lon pi toki wan anu lon pi toki tu.
> taso jan pona li toki ala e lon pi toki wan e lon pi
> toki tu.
> taso jan pona li kama e tawa pi ona ali. Ona ali li
> tawa jan pona pi
> jan pona ni. jan pona pi jan pona ni li jan sona.
>> jan pi nanpa wan li toki e ni tawa jan sona: waso
> ali li kama tan
> sike mama. sike wan li mama pi waso ali.
> jan sona li toki e ni: toki e li lon.
> jan pi nanpa tu li toki e ni tawa jan sona: sike
> mama ali li kama
> tan waso. waso wan li mama pi sike ali.
> jan sona li toki e ni: toki e li lon.
>> tempo ni la jan pona li pilin nasa lawa li taki e ni
> tawa jan sona:
> "jan sona o, toki sina li nasa. toki wan li lon la
> toki tu li lon
> ala. toki tu li lon la toki wan li lon ala."
>> jan sona pona li taki e ni:
> "jan pona o, mi pilin e ni: taki sina kin li lon."\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Do You Yahoo!?Tired of spam? Yahoo! Mail has the best spam protection aroundhttp://mail.yahoo.com