---
author: "agneau belanyek"
date: 2005-03-13T13:21:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "frpeterjackson"<frpeterjackson@y...
> wrote:

>> a a a! mi kama sona e ni: jan mute pi toki pona li kepeken/moku e
> kasi nasa! ni li tan seme? mi kepeken/moku ala e kasi nasa.
>mi kin li moku ala e kasi nasa. kasi nasa en ilo nasa ante li iketawa mi. taso mi moku mute e telo seli wawa. mi moku ala e telo wawala, mi pilin ike.
> taso... mi jo e pilin ante: ken la toki pona li ken kepeken e nimi
> pali pi nimi tu \[verb of two words\].mi pilin ike tan ni: mi wile kepeken e toki Inli. (I apologise forusing English)toki pona already has compound verb groups:mi MOKU ALA e kasi nasa.mi KAMA SONA e toki pona.mi OLIN MUTE e meli sina.these compound verbs follow the rules of tokipona (i.e. there is amain verb followed by any number of qualifiers). so imo you can'tsay:mi KASI NASA.for two simple reasons:1) "mi kasi" on its own does not normally mean "I consume a plant" -if "kasi" were to be used as a verb the meaning would be closerto "i am a plant".2) even if "mi kasi" meant "i consume a plant", nasa would be aqualifier for the action described by the verb... i.e. "mi kasinasa" would mean "i consume the plant crazilly"basically, i think the answer to questions such as these relyon "thinking tokiponally" (nice expression coined afaik by janMakosi) and some advice given to me by a famous britishesperantist: "when translating from language A to B, do notthink "what is the B word for the A words given", insteadthink "what was the message being conveyed in A? How would theauthor have conveyed the same message if they had been using B?""mi sitelen e nimi mi lon lipu" is clearly the good toki pona."mi sitelen nimi e lipu" cannot be correct because it makes "lipu"the object of "sitelen" suggesting for example that you are drawinga lipu-like object."mi sitelen nimi LON lipu" may be correct even if personally i don'tlike it. what do others think?anyway, even esperanto (and i am in no way suggesting that tpaspires to be like esperanto) is not as free in constructing verbsfrom substantifs. in esperanto you can't say "mi akvas" for "mitrinkas akvon".jan Anjo