---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-08-08T21:17:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 frpeterjackson <[frpeterjackson@yahoo.com](mailto://frpeterjackson@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

> The genitive ("possessive") case across languages can convey a number
> of different relationships between noun phrases. Consequently, it can
> conceal a lot of ambiguity.
>> my friend's cup / the glass of my friend
>> a drinking cup / a glass of drinkingThis just does not seem like a reasonable way to say this in English; it wouldbe "a glass fordrinking" or some such (but the point is maybe the same anyhow).
> a stone cup / a cup of stone
>> a cup (full) of water
> These should all be rendered differently in Toki Pona:
>> my friend's cup: poki pi jan pona mi (simple possession)I find calling "pi" simple possession misleading at best. What "pi" seems to dois introduce aright grouping cluster into a left grouping structure, without a (ususal)preposition. What therelation between the two pieces is depends (as everything else in tp) oncontext. Restricting itto possession is particularly unfortunate, given that you later suggest "jo," the general"possession" word as a preposition, but with a different meaning from"possession"(container-content or parititive). In short, "pi" seems to act just aboutexactly like "of" and,like "of" (except for some further uses) and, like "of" can be particularized invarious ways.
> drinking cup: poki tawa moku telo (purpose)
>> stone cup: poki tan kiwen (origin)
>> cup of water: poki jo teloWhy "jo"? (I'll take it that "tawa" for infinitives and infinitives forpurpose, both veryEnglish sorts of things, are correct even in tp.)
> So we should we very careful not to render "of" as "pi" in all cases.
> It depends on the relationship described.Well, if it is clear what the relationship is and it makes a difference. But ifyou just want toindicate that they are related, "pi" works find --
 even if you could figure outa more preciserelationship (if you can figure it out from "of," you can figure it out from"pi.")