---
author: "Marcos CRUZ"
date: 2007-05-13T00:33:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), John E Clifford <clifford-j@...
>wrote:

> 
> "jan Amelika li toki e nimi ni:"
> jan Mewika?
> Seattle?No, the original title is just "The indians say". From the content Ican not be sure, what indians they are. In the book most of thestories are about South America, but not all.
> 
> a. jan li jo e ma tan seme? jan li ken pana e ma kepeken seme?jan li
> 
> ken kama jo e ma kepeken seme? mi mute li jo ala e ma. ma li jo emi
> 
> mute. mi mute li jan lili ma. tenpo ali la, nasin ni li lon. mali
> 
> lon. ma li pali e ni: pipi li moku.
> Maybe only "kama e ni"?Instead of "ken kama jo e ma", you mean?The original beginning, in (my) English, is more o less like this:"(So you say) the Earth has owner? How is it possible? How someonecould sell it? How someone could buy it?..."
> 
> ma li jo e linja e kasi telo e kasi pi telo
> 
> ala e kasi suli.
> Not clear what lines and wet plants and dry plants are.Yes, it was difficult to choose the words.The original says: "She \[the Earth\] has hair \[or "animal-skin",because the original spanish word "pelo" can mean both in thiscontext\], pasture/grassland, straw, trees."I decided to omit the details, but I know "linja" is not clear in TPfrom the context. Maybe "soweli selo" is much better, isn't it? "kasitelo" aims "fresh plants" (grass) and "kasi pi telo ala" aims "dryplants" (straw)... In theses cases I thought it was enough.
> 
> ma li pali e kili ma e tomo e jan. ma li olin e mi
> 
> mute. mi mute li olin e ma. ma li moku e telo nasa tan mi mute.
> How are we the source of booze for the landf?Ah, another difficult one for me. The original says: "She drinks"chicha" \[a southamerican name for a kind of alcoholic drink\], sheaccepts our invitation". I translated it as "she drinks X from/because of ni"... I thought it was clear enough, though it would beclearer to use two sentences: "mi mute li pana e telo nasa tawa ma.ma li moku e ni." Or much simpler: "ma li moku e telo nasa pi/poka mimute". But I thing the prepositional meaning of "tan" is good toreflect the original. Don't you think so?[http://alinome.net/tokipona/tra_egaleano.eo.htmljan](http://alinome.net/tokipona/tra_egaleano.eo.htmljan) Mako--
[http://alinome.net/tokipona](http://alinome.net/tokipona)