---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-05-13T00:52:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Marcos CRUZ <[tokipona@alinome.net](mailto://tokipona@alinome.net)\
> wrote:

> ---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), John E Clifford <clifford-j@...
>> wrote:

>> 
> 
> "jan Amelika li toki e nimi ni:"
>> 
> jan Mewika?
> 
> Seattle?
>> No, the original title is just "The indians say". From the content I
> can not be sure, what indians they are. In the book most of the
> stories are about South America, but not all.
>> 
> 
> a. jan li jo e ma tan seme? jan li ken pana e ma kepeken seme?
> jan li
> 
> 
> ken kama jo e ma kepeken seme? mi mute li jo ala e ma. ma li jo e
> mi
> 
> 
> mute. mi mute li jan lili ma. tenpo ali la, nasin ni li lon. ma
> li
> 
> 
> lon. ma li pali e ni: pipi li moku.
>> 
> Maybe only "kama e ni"?
>> Instead of "ken kama jo e ma", you mean?No, instead of "pali e ni" two sense of making something happen.
> The original beginning, in (my) English, is more o less like this:
>> "(So you say) the Earth has owner? How is it possible? How someone
> could sell it? How someone could buy it?..."
>> 
> 
> ma li jo e linja e kasi telo e kasi pi telo
> 
> 
> ala e kasi suli.
>> 
> Not clear what lines and wet plants and dry plants are.
>> Yes, it was difficult to choose the words.
>> The original says: "She \[the Earth\] has hair \[or "animal-skin",
> because the original spanish word "pelo" can mean both in this
> context\], pasture/grassland, straw, trees."
>> I decided to omit the details, but I know "linja" is not clear in TP
> from the context. Maybe "soweli selo" is much better, isn't it? "kasi
> telo" aims "fresh plants" (grass) and "kasi pi telo ala" aims "dry
> plants" (straw)... In theses cases I thought it was enough."selo soweli," maybe "linja soweli"?I went to swamp plants and desert plants and vines ("kasi suli" is standard fortrees). I don'tknow how to make it clearer nor (as you suggest) whether it matters much.
> 
> 
> ma li pali e kili ma e tomo e jan. ma li olin e mi
> 
> 
> mute. mi mute li olin e ma. ma li moku e telo nasa tan mi mute.
>> 
> How are we the source of booze for the land?
>> Ah, another difficult one for me. The original says: "She drinks
> "chicha" \[a southamerican name for a kind of alcoholic drink\], she
> accepts our invitation". I translated it as "she drinks X from/
> because of ni"... I thought it was clear enough, though it would be
> clearer to use two sentences: "mi mute li pana e telo nasa tawa ma.
> ma li moku e ni." Or much simpler: "ma li moku e telo nasa pi/poka mi
> mute". But I thing the prepositional meaning of "tan" is good to
> reflect the original. Don't you think so?
>With the explanation, this looks about right.
> [http://alinome.net/tokipona/tra_egaleano.eo.html](http://alinome.net/tokipona/tra_egaleano.eo.html)\
>> jan Mako
>> --

> [http://alinome.net/tokipona](http://alinome.net/tokipona)\
>>>