---
author: "Josan Kapo"
date: 2008-11-27T21:23:51+00:00
nestinglevel: 3
---
It does seem to come up often enough though... for something to stick it think it would  
have to be simple and (relatively) universal, and not reliant on memorizing a convention  
like one/two open/closed.  
  
'poka pilin' for left seems to return enough to prove useful.  
  
I think something like 'poka pali' could work as a compliment, since most people (myself  
excluded) seem to be right-handed.  
  
personally I'm not a fan of adding 'ala' as a solution for creating a compliment.  
  
Cardinal directions seem much harder to translate into satisfying toki pona. There is a  
tendency in many languages to ascribe colors to directions. This could create a simple  
solution, but again requires memorizing an arbitrary system.  
  
As I understand it, using "North East South West: instead of "Left, Right" means directions  
are given regardless of the speakers position, and not that Left is referred to as West, and  
Right as East. This works for instance in giving directions to one's house, but not mean  
the "top right corner of a piece of paper" is "North-East" Does anyone else have a feeling  
on that?  
  
just my 2 cents- jan Josan  

> [_Post by Liogab11_](/ztBF1yyu/left-right#post9)  
> Then why not avoid talking about it altogether? Your point does seem reasonable. As I  
> 

learned to express myself in TP, I never had to use left or right in a sentence. We only  
talked about it because of a rookie Tokiponist (no offence meant)  

> [_Post by Liogab11_](/ztBF1yyu/left-right#post9)  
>    
> :) jan Pusa  
> Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] Re: <- -> ? left, right?  
> Date: Thursday, 27 November, 2008, 12:01 AM  
> Connections with map and writing conventions are a bit worrisome, since they vary a  
> 

good deal from culture to culture (and some cultures have none, of course). But no system  
for directional notions seems totally safe from these comments. And there are those in  
kulupu pi toki pona who would argue that the tp world would not use them anyhow (cf  
'big' numbers).  

> [_Post by Liogab11_](/ztBF1yyu/left-right#post9)  
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_  
> Sent: Wednesday, November 26, 2008 8:07:30 AM  
> Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: <- -> ? left, right?  
> I prefer to say "poka pi suno kama" for right; "poka pi suno weka"  
> for left, since we are talking about left and right.  
> After all, if we look at a world map, east will point to our right;  
> west, to our right.  
> As for north and south, I belive "lete" and "seli" (aside from cold  
> and hot) are used for north and south regardless of the locations of  
> the speaker and the person spoken to.  
> jan Pusa  
> 
> > [_Post by jan Jo_](/ztBF1yyu/left-right#post6)  
> > 
> > > [_Post by galactonerd_](/ztBF1yyu/left-right#post4)  
> > > west could be  
> > > "nasin suno" (because that's the direction the sun goes), and east  
> > > could be "nasin monsi suno" ("the direction behind the sun").  
> > > 
> > 
> > mi pilin e ni: tan li ni la, nimi "nasin suno tawa" li pona tawa  
> > 
> 
> nimi "west".  
> 
> > [_Post by jan Jo_](/ztBF1yyu/left-right#post6)  
> > (the direction the sun GOES)  
> > "nasin suno kama" li pona tawa nimi "east".  
> > (the direction the sun comes)  
> > mi toki e pilin mi la, nimi "nasin ..." li pona lili tawa mi.  
> > 
> 
> nimi "poka ..." li pona mute tawa mi.  
> 
> > [_Post by jan Jo_](/ztBF1yyu/left-right#post6)  
> > (poka seli, poka lete, poka suno kama, poka suno tawa)  
> > jan Jo  
> > (toki pona) http://geocities. com/yohsweb/  
> > (toki Nijon) http://www.yohs. net  
> > 
> 
> .  
> \[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]  
> New Email names for you!  
> Hurry before someone else does!  
> http://mail.promotions.yahoo.com/newdomains/aa/  
> \[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]  
>