---
author: "Liogab11"
date: 2008-11-27 13:28:46 UTC
nestinglevel: 2
---
Then why not avoid talking about it altogether? Your point does seem reasonable. As I learned to express myself in TP, I never had to use left or right in a sentence. We only talked about it because of a rookie Tokiponist (no offence meant)  
   
:) jan Pusa  
  
  
\--- On Thu, 27/11/08, John E Clifford <\*\*\*@yahoo.com> wrote:  
  
From: John E Clifford <\*\*\*@yahoo.com>  
Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] Re: <- -> ? left, right?  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Date: Thursday, 27 November, 2008, 12:01 AM  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Connections with map and writing conventions are a bit worrisome, since they vary a good deal from culture to culture (and some cultures have none, of course). But no system for directional notions seems totally safe from these comments. And there are those in kulupu pi toki pona who would argue that the tp world would not use them anyhow (cf 'big' numbers).  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_  
From: liogab11 <\*\*\*@yahoo. com>  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroup s.com  
Sent: Wednesday, November 26, 2008 8:07:30 AM  
Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: <- -> ? left, right?  
  
I prefer to say "poka pi suno kama" for right; "poka pi suno weka"  
for left, since we are talking about left and right.  
After all, if we look at a world map, east will point to our right;  
west, to our right.  
  
As for north and south, I belive "lete" and "seli" (aside from cold  
and hot) are used for north and south regardless of the locations of  
the speaker and the person spoken to.  
  
jan Pusa  

> [_Post by jan Jo_](/ztBF1yyu/left-right#post6)  
> 
> > [_Post by galactonerd_](/ztBF1yyu/left-right#post4)  
> > west could be  
> > "nasin suno" (because that's the direction the sun goes), and east  
> > could be "nasin monsi suno" ("the direction behind the sun").  
> > 
> 
> mi pilin e ni: tan li ni la, nimi "nasin suno tawa" li pona tawa  
> 

nimi "west".  

> [_Post by jan Jo_](/ztBF1yyu/left-right#post6)  
> (the direction the sun GOES)  
> "nasin suno kama" li pona tawa nimi "east".  
> (the direction the sun comes)  
> mi toki e pilin mi la, nimi "nasin ..." li pona lili tawa mi.  
> 

nimi "poka ..." li pona mute tawa mi.  

> [_Post by jan Jo_](/ztBF1yyu/left-right#post6)  
> (poka seli, poka lete, poka suno kama, poka suno tawa)  
> jan Jo  
> (toki pona) http://geocities. com/yohsweb/  
> (toki Nijon) http://www.yohs. net  
> 

.  
  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
New Email names for you!  
Get the Email name you&#39;ve always wanted on the new @ymail and @rocketmail.  
Hurry before someone else does!  
http://mail.promotions.yahoo.com/newdomains/aa/  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]