---
author: "Joop Kiefte"
date: 2009-08-28T08:54:14+00:00
nestinglevel: 1
---
freedom - ken (in the anarchist definition: jan lawa ala)  
slave - jan pi ken ala // jan pi lawa ala // jan pali (pi mani ala) (all  
depending on your definition)  
heavy - suli // ike  

> [_Post by Tom_](/HZNN6lH6/sigh#post1)  
> Maybe like Toki Pona in simplicity is "wanladigala"  
> http://wanladigala.pbworks.com/ ?  
> I have no idea what it is exactly, but the simple idea of one word per  
> syllable is appealing. Maybe a bit like aUI. Every syllable has a meaning  
> and by combining them you get more complex structures. Could these be called  
> 'semantic primes'?  
> You could talk about the theory of 'semantic primitives' actually...  
> finding out if those 'primitives' really exist, and, if so, whether they are  
> a useful base for constructing a language. Answering the question: "Is there  
> a set of semantic primes possible, one that can serve as the base of a  
> conlang (maybe a list that is not perfect, but for all practical purposes  
> works fine)?  
> (I know you wrote about Natural Semantic Metalanguage, but looks to me  
> that's not totally the same, correct me if I'm wrong)  
> I like the idea of reducing language to a form that's as simple as  
> possible, while it still can handle a broad range of meanings and concepts.  
> Topki Pona is so very simple that I cannot get my point accross, it seems.  
> freedom  
> slave  
> heavy  
> And I'm sure there's many more things that are very difficult to say in Toki Pona...  
> Maybe if the range in vocab was a bit larger, it would help things?  
> Tom  
> \[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]  
> \------------------------------------  
> Yahoo! Groups Links  
> 

\--  
Communication is essential. So we need decent tools when communication is  
lacking, when language capability is hard to acquire...  
  
\- http://esperanto.net - http://esperanto-jongeren.nl  
  
Only those who attempt the absurd will achieve the impossible. I think it's  
in my basement... let me go upstairs and check.  
\- M. C. Escher  
  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]