---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2009-08-28T14:05:14+00:00
nestinglevel: 1
---
Thanks! There is a longer paper on semantic primes (aUI, NSM, toki pona, the Swadesh list, Esperanto, and Lojban) over at the LCC1 site at conlangs.org (I think). It needs a bit of revising and purifying, but covers the essentials pretty much.  
  
  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
From: Tom <\*\*\*@yahoo.com>  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Sent: Friday, August 28, 2009 2:13:43 AM  
Subject: \[tokipona\] re: sigh  
  
  
  
  
Maybe like Toki Pona in simplicity is "wanladigala" http://wanladigala. pbworks.com/ ?  
I have no idea what it is exactly, but the simple idea of one word per syllable is appealing. Maybe a bit like aUI. Every syllable has a meaning and by combining them you get more complex structures. Could these be called 'semantic primes'?  
You could talk about the theory of 'semantic primitives' actually... finding out if those 'primitives' really exist, and, if so, whether they are a useful base for constructing a language. Answering the question: "Is there a set of semantic primes possible, one that can serve as the base of a conlang (maybe a list that is not perfect, but for all practical purposes works fine)?  
(I know you wrote about Natural Semantic Metalanguage, but looks to me that's not totally the same, correct me if I'm wrong)  
  
I like the idea of reducing language to a form that's as simple as possible, while it still can handle a broad range of meanings and concepts. Topki Pona is so very simple that I cannot get my point accross, it seems. Or can anybody help me say in Toki Pona:  
freedom  
slave  
heavy  
And I'm sure there's many more things that are very difficult to say in Toki Pona...  
Maybe if the range in vocab was a bit larger, it would help things?  
  
Tom  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]