---
author: "Nachete"
date: 2004-08-21T19:31:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Here's my first try of writing in Toki Pona, translated to Esperanto and English. Please correct my mistakes. Any correction about my Esperanto will be welcome too.toki!mi jan Nachete. mi mije Epanja.mi wile kawa sona e toki pona.toki pona li pona tawa mi ni li toki suwi.mi wile toki tawa sina kepeken e toki pona.mi tawa!----------
Sal!Mia nomo estas Naĉete. Mi estas hispana knabo.Mi volas lerni Tokiponan lingvon.Toki Pona ŝatas min.Toki Pona estas bela lingvo.Mi volas babili al vi "tokipone"Ĝis!----------
And this is want I tried to say:Hello!I'm Nachete. I'm an spanish guy.I want to learn Toki Pona.I like Toki Pona.It's a beautiful language.I want to talk with you using Toki PonaBye!!----------
And I'd like to ask you a few questions:1st - In some languages (such as Spanish, Galician or Portuguese), there's a difference between the 2nd person of the singular and the plural. Does this happens in Toki Pona? For instance: "ona"=he, él  "ona mute"=they, ellos; "sina"=you, tú "sina mute"=you, vosotros.2nd - Do you use any IM? I'd like to chat with people for improving my Toki Pona (and my Esperanto and my English, as well). I use several IM systems. If you want to add me to your contact list, use one of this adresses:    Jabber: [nachete@glug.es](mailto://nachete@glug.es) <--
 it isn't an e-mail adress    ICQ: 8641270    Yahoo! Messenger: ilismal    MSN Messenger: [ilismal@hotmail.com3rd](mailto://ilismal@hotmail.com3rd) - Could you, please, give me a "tokiponized" name? SaludosNachete----------------------------
Mi estantería de BookcrossingMi webMarge: Homer, couldn't we pawn my engagement ring instead? Homer: Now, I appreciate that, honey, but we need one hundred and fifty dollars here. There's No Disgrace Like Home