---
author: "Kevyn Scott Kateri Calanza Bello"
date: 2006-09-08T06:07:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), MorphemeAddict@... wrote:

>> It seems to me that translating major religious works, such as theBible, Dao
> de jing, or Bhagavad Gita into Toki Pona is impractical andpointless. A lot
> of the content of these works is based on discriminating betweenvarious
> semantically close words or concepts, something which Toki Pona isinherently and
> deliberately bad at.
>> jan Setepo / stevoAs I said earlier: "LOL, well, I have done toki pona for at least ayear or two now, soit's not that new to me. However, I'm sure there are simpler texts totranslate than the Bhagavad Gita. It was just an attempt to see howcomprehensiveness would be attained through a very minimal languagelike toki pona. I was more in paraphrasing, since calling it atranslation is a misnomer to me."A chapter in the lipu toki sewi Pakawakita isn't going to be official,but rather an experimentation of the language. Somthing akin to ascientific textbook wouldn't be handled at all by toki pona, but thetranslation of concepts into toki pona opens the mind to the bareessential of what that concept really means. Although the words appearlong and probably lose the eloquence of toki pona, the transference ofthe true meaning of words is apparent through translation. Instead ofhaving to find a definition of a word, the concept instead istranslated in its reality.Religion and spirituality has always been an inherent part of even themost primitive societies. Plus, it helps my brain try to break aparteven the most difficult concepts into their bare and naked forms.Trinity = sitelen jan sewi tu wan lon jan sewi wanAhimsa - utala alaMoksha - weka tan kama sin en kama moliSalat - pilin sijelo pi jan sewiIslam - pana pi wile jan tawa jan sewidevotion - pali olinworship - pali sewiprayer - toki tawa jan sewipriest, shaman - jan lawa sewiintuition - pilin insameditation - pilin e pona insaI could go on, but I should try translating a story some time. Goodidea! ;)ale li pona.tan jan Ke.