---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2009-05-05 22:31:47 UTC
nestinglevel: 7
---
The earliest 'pona la' is from before I started keeping records, so 2004 or earlier. 'ike la' and several similar are equally old.  
  
For clarity, 'tan ala tenpo pini' works better than with the 'ala' at the end, since then it could negate any number of things (well, four).  
Adverbs do go after verbs (insofar as that kind of talk makes sense: modifiers follow modified, but there a 'adverbs' that modify the whole sentnence -- temporal, attitudinal, causal, etc. and they go before, followed by 'la.' This is a case of attitudinal, indicating that the following fact is something that at least the speaker considers a good thing.  
Not sure what 'kin' right after 'li' might mean. I suppose that the idea here is that your talk also is OK -- along with mine, or perhaps, it is also OK, along with being different.  
'lon toki pona' is better 'kepeken toki pona' if you mean the language, rather than just good talking. 'pona' as a transitive verb (usual caveats)does mean 'make pona' and probably clean or pure is part of the good.  
I'm not clear how 'selo' 'skin, shell, surface' might mean 'secret' (it seems to be the opposite) or 'lying down' (but I am not sure what else might work; 'supa' has been used thus). It does seem to work for 'outside,' however,' presumably with 'lon' (and 'insa ala' has also been used).  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
From: jan\_sewe <\*\*\*@laposte.net>  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Sent: Tuesday, May 5, 2009 2:29:45 PM  
Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: toki ni li meli lili pi toki pona  
  
  
  
  
  
toki pona sina li pona li tan tenpo pini ala.  
sin la toki pona pi tenpo pini kin li tan monsi pi tenpo sike 2001... :)  

> [_Post by Kevyn_](/M5BuZ8CN/toki-ni-li-meli-lili-pi-toki-pona#post6)  
> o a! mi sona ala.  
> taso nasin toki sina li ante li sin mute tawa mi a! toki pona mi li toki pona pi tenpo pini. mi sona ala e toki pona sin a!  
> mi sona e ni: nimi adverbo li lon monsi pi nimi pali (verbo) sama ' mi wile toki ike' li 'Mi volas malbone paroli.' taso ken la toki sina li kin pona tawa mi sama 'ike la mi wile toki.'  
> taso mi pali e toki sin lon toki pona. mi kepeken e nimi 'pona' kiel verbo por 'purigi.'  
> Ekzemple, 'o pona e tomo lape sina!' 'Purigu vian dormoc'ambron! '  
> mi kin kepeken e nimi 'selo' tawa pilin 'sekreto, kus'i, ekstere,' ktp.  
> 

\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]