---
author: "Jim Henry"
date: 2006-07-17T20:00:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
On 7/16/06, te.anke <[te.anke@yahoo.com](mailto://te.anke@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

> I was wondering if, since toki pona is a context-based language, the subjectcould be
> dropped in conversations. It happens frequently in other kinds of similarlanguages, like
> Japanese, where if the subject (or context) of discussion is understood thenit can be
> implied and not expressed. For example, say I was talking about orcs (janUluka = Uruk-
> hai person?):
>> jan Uluka li lukin ike. jan Uluka li toki kepeken toki pimeja. jan Elitalumoli li pona tawa
> jan Uluka. palisa moli li pona tawa jan Uluka. sijelo pi jan Uluka lipimeja.
> Orcs are ugly. Orcs talk using the Black Speech. They like the deaths ofelves (Eldar
> people). They like arrows (deadly pointy-long things). The bodies of orcsare black.
>> Instead of repeating "jan Uluka" over and over, since the subject is alreadyunderstood,
> would it be possible/encouraged to restate that as:
>> lukin ike. toki kepeken toki pimeja. jan Elitalu moli li pona. palisa molili pona. sijelo li
> pimeja.
> Ugly. Talk using Black Speech. Elves' deaths are good. Arrows are good. Body is black.Try it --
 write an extended text in which thedialogue follows this kind of pattern --
 and seehow readily understandable it is. (BTW I thinkyou would at least need "jan Uluka li..." in the firstsentence there, since there is no previouscontext to say who "lukin ike".)
>The thing that makes toki pona different
> from Japanese here (and so my logic can fail) is that Japanese uses twoversions of what
> we use "li" for: one to establish the subject of conversation, and one toestablish the
> explicit subject of a sentence. "Li" must cover both kinds of subjects,right?No, "li" marks the subject of a sentence; thatsubject of a sentence is often the topic ofthe sentence, but doesn't have to be.
> But I also thought about the "la" particle. In the phrase "ken la jan Ulukali pini e utala"
> "ken la" sets up a conditional, which I'm translating literally as "if it'spossible.""ken la" usually translates as "maybe", not"if possible".
>I maybe
> thought that one could set up a conversational context using the "la" particlein addition to
> if-clauses and time clauses (all of which are really if-clauses."mi pilin ala sama."la" can sometimes be translated "if" butsometimes "when" or "under these conditions"or something else would be more appropriate.
> tenpo pini la, mi lili.
> If \[we're talking about\] the past time, I was small.Or: at past time, I \[was\] small.
> ken la, mi lili
> If \[we're talking about\] possibility, I am small.I don't get this one.
>> sijelo kon li ike la, mi telo.
> If \[we're talking about\] bad weather (state of the air), I am wet.Maybe so... some people dislike putting a completesentence (with "li") before the "la", but there is nota strong consensus against it AFAIK.
> So, by extention, could the following also be ok?
>> jan Uluka la sijelo li pimeja.
> If \[we're talking about\] orcs, the body is black.Maybe so. "As for orcs, body \[is\] black." Sure.--
Jim Henryhttp://[http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/conlang.htm](http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/conlang.htm)