---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-04-04T23:44:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 "J. Clement" <[galactonerd@yahoo.com](mailto://galactonerd@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

> I'm noticing a few things:
>> 1) People are using "pi" for relative clauses, as in "ilo pi kama len linja." So, could we say,
> "ilo jan pi pilin pona luka luka pi anpa lukin sona pi toki lawa" as someonesuggested?I'm not sure this is best thought of as a relative clause rather than a complexmodifier: "toolfor thread becoming cloth." The more complicated cases do seem easiest to do inEnglish asrelative clauses --
 but only restrictive ones, I think. Non-restrictive arestill best asseparate sentences . As are restrictive ones when clarity is more imporatantthat concision(though sentences need not be much longer).
> 2) I've seen "luka pi luka" for the number 25. Could we use "pi" formultiplication in general,
> just as we say "2/3 of 4/5" to mean "2/3 times 4/5," so that we could have "tutu pi luka" for
> "20," "tu wan pi luka pi luka" for 75, etc.? Any ambiguities resulting fromthis could be
> cleared using "en," so 67 could be "tu pi luka pi luka en tu wan pi luka \[orluka luka luka if
> you prefer\] en tu" (2x5x5+(2+1)x5+2). Thus TP would have a base 5 system. 125 could be "luka
> pi luka pi luka" or "luka lon wawa tu wan" (the word for "power" being usedfor the exponent is
> also done in French, so it's not limited to English). The only problem wouldbe how to write
> fractions. Maybe "tu lon wan" for 1/2?Numbers seem to be the only (or at least the main) where raw tp gives resultsthat everyone thinksare unacceptable. there mhave been half-a-dozen suggestions about what to doabout this. Yoursfalls neatly into the "keep the vocabulary by extend the meaning/use of someterms" branch. Itwill work with diminishing usefulness as numbers involved get bigger (which theyare supposed notto do, of course). It is not a base 5 system in the most useful sense, namelyone that uses placenotation; it is just an algebraic system that uses only the first 5 (or 6)numbers in equations."lon" and "lon wawa" are nice additions, though. Getting place and originalvocabulary can be donewith a tresimal system (0, 1, 2) or a base-six system (add 3, 4, 5) or indeed adecimal system -with complex names for 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9. But the significance of some numberstrings change (andwe do need a separator sometimes). Someday, we are going to have to decide howto do this. Myown preference seems to be (at the moment anyhow) to do a thorough decimalnotation, with newterms for digits and for major levels (10, 100, 1,000 and then for eachthree-power) but make thewhole thing outside of tp proper, rather like proper names are now (a fraud, buta familiar one).
> 3) Though people are proposing different scripts for TP, the Roman alphabetseems to be winning.
> Since the Roman alphabet is read from left to right, could "left" be "nasinpini" and "right"
> be "nasin kama?" Thus "north" could be "nasin kama pi tawa suno" and "south"could be "nasin
> pini pi tawa suno."Well, the Latin alphabet is soooo handy and works very well for tp. Of couse,Japanese kana mightbe even more iconic for tp and it can be found for computers, but it is not verypopular. And newspecial tp symbols aren't generally on computers.Reading habits seem to be a major source of left/right words and also east/west(north/south aresettled --
 equally eurocentrically --
 with lete/seli). I am not quite sure whythe choice of pinifor left (nor kama for right): in reading habits, left is the beginning, not theend. Thenorth/south choice assumes that we are working off the rising sun, of course,and there is a longtradition for that (not generally European, though, so far as I know). What areeast and west inthis system? Cancel all that, I just reread your original --
 that is read itdifferently} not as"right/left side toward the sun" but as "on the right/left of the travel of thesun" that is, ofthe sun as it travels. Cuter yet!
> I like "kule pi telo wawa" for "brown." It's like the Japanese "chairo" (lit."tea-color")."telo wawa" is listed as "caffinated energy drink," so it is likely to be brown,but as e.g.Mountain Dew shows, it could be almost any color. Going with tea (or, since wehave a word forit, coffee --
 telo seli wawa) seems a better idea. Or change the meaning of"telo wawa" to"coffee" to begin with.
>> jan Sosuwa
>>> ---------------------------------

> Looking for earth-friendly autos?
> Browse Top Cars by "Green Rating" at Yahoo! Autos' Green Center.