---
author: "galactonerd"
date: 2007-04-05T04:05:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), John E Clifford <clifford-j@...
>wrote:

>>> ---
 "J. Clement" <galactonerd@...
> wrote:

>> 
> I'm noticing a few things:
> 
>> 
> 1) People are using "pi" for relative clauses, as in "ilo pi kamalen linja." So, could we say,
> 
> "ilo jan pi pilin pona luka luka pi anpa lukin sona pi toki lawa"as someone suggested?
>> I'm not sure this is best thought of as a relative clause ratherthan a complex modifier: "tool
> for thread becoming cloth." The more complicated cases do seemeasiest to do in English as
> relative clauses --
 but only restrictive ones, I think. Non-restrictive are still best as
> separate sentences . As are restrictive ones when clarity is moreimporatant that concision
> (though sentences need not be much longer).I've heard of relative clauses (I had to learn about them in order tolearn Japanese), but what is a restrictive clause?
> Numbers seem to be the only (or at least the main) where raw tpgives results that everyone thinks
> are unacceptable. there mhave been half-a-dozen suggestions aboutwhat to do about this.Really? What have those suggestions been?Yours
> falls neatly into the "keep the vocabulary by extend themeaning/use of some terms" branch. It
> will work with diminishing usefulness as numbers involved getbigger (which they are supposed not
> to do, of course). It is not a base 5 system in the most usefulsense, namely one that uses place
> notation; it is just an algebraic system that uses only the first 5(or 6) numbers in equations.Well, I would like it if there were more number words to work with,but I'm trying to make a mathematical system with only words for 1,2, and 5, because what makes Toki Pona easy to learn is how few wordsit has.
> "lon" and "lon wawa" are nice additions, though.I'm glad you like them.Getting place and original vocabulary can be done
> with a tresimal system (0, 1, 2) or a base-six system (add 3, 4, 5)or indeed a decimal system -
> with complex names for 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9.So, you mean, (with a base 3 system) "tu wan ala wan" for the base-3number 2101 (64 in decimal)?But the significance of some number strings change (and
> we do need a separator sometimes). Someday, we are going to haveto decide how to do this. My
> own preference seems to be (at the moment anyhow) to do a thoroughdecimal notation, with new
> terms for digits and for major levels (10, 100, 1,000 and then foreach three-power) but make the
> whole thing outside of tp proper, rather like proper names are now(a fraud, but a familiar one).I'm not sure I understand what you mean; could you give an example?
> Well, the Latin alphabet is soooo handy and works very well fortp. Of couse, Japanese kana might
> be even more iconic for tp and it can be found for computers, butit is not very popular. And new
> special tp symbols aren't generally on computers.I like Japanese kana for tp.
> Reading habits seem to be a major source of left/right words andalso east/west (north/south are
> settled --
 equally eurocentrically --
 with lete/seli).Really? Well, I guess as we get more Australians learning tp, thatwill probably change.I am not quite sure why the choice of pini
> for left (nor kama for right): in reading habits, left is thebeginning, not the end.I chose those by analogy with "tenpo pini" and "tenpo kama." Thefinished direction would be left, and the direction of what comeswould be right.