---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-04-05T15:16:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 galactonerd <[galactonerd@yahoo.com](mailto://galactonerd@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

> ---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), John E Clifford <clifford-j@...
>> wrote:

> 
>> 
>> 
> ---
 "J. Clement" <galactonerd@...
> wrote:

> 
>> 
> 
> I'm noticing a few things:
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 1) People are using "pi" for relative clauses, as in "ilo pi kama
> len linja." So, could we say,
> 
> 
> "ilo jan pi pilin pona luka luka pi anpa lukin sona pi toki lawa"
> as someone suggested?
> 
>> 
> I'm not sure this is best thought of as a relative clause rather
> than a complex modifier: "tool
> 
> for thread becoming cloth." The more complicated cases do seem
> easiest to do in English as
> 
> relative clauses --
 but only restrictive ones, I think. Non-
> restrictive are still best as
> 
> separate sentences . As are restrictive ones when clarity is more
> imporatant that concision
> 
> (though sentences need not be much longer).
>> I've heard of relative clauses (I had to learn about them in order to
> learn Japanese), but what is a restrictive clause?A rejative clause that is part of the specification of the referent rather thanone which justadds information about an alrady identified object "The man that I talked to" isused to identifywhich man I am talking about; "The man, who climbed Kilimanjaro," assumes weknow which man butnow tells us something else about him (in addition to whatever the main sentencesays).
> 
> Numbers seem to be the only (or at least the main) where raw tp
> gives results that everyone thinks
> 
> are unacceptable. There have been half-a-dozen suggestions about
> what to do about this.
>> Really? What have those suggestions been?The tresimal system, one adding "pi" for multiplication, yiours (with "lon" and"lon wawa" thoughI think someone else also proposed doing exponentiation somehow), severalvariants on the decimalsystem differing on how to deal with digits (new words or the present patterns)and on whether toadd cluster words --
 and if so what words to use. One odf these last includsfractioons (well,decimals). There is also some variation on how to use the cluster words.
> Yours
> 
> falls neatly into the "keep the vocabulary by extend the
> meaning/use of some terms" branch. It
> 
> will work with diminishing usefulness as numbers involved get
> bigger (which they are supposed not
> 
> to do, of course). It is not a base 5 system in the most useful
> sense, namely one that uses place
> 
> notation; it is just an algebraic system that uses only the first 5
> (or 6) numbers in equations.
>> Well, I would like it if there were more number words to work with,
> but I'm trying to make a mathematical system with only words for 1,
> 2, and 5, because what makes Toki Pona easy to learn is how few words
> it has. Yeah, but learning tresimal math turns out to be problematic --
 and it doublesthe length of theexpressions. Base 6 math is probably worse, though with shorter expressions (Iskip over bases 8,12, and 16).
> 
> "lon" and "lon wawa" are nice additions, though.
>> I'm glad you like them.
>> Getting place and original vocabulary can be done
> 
> with a tresimal system (0, 1, 2) or a base-six system (add 3, 4, 5)
> or indeed a decimal system -
> 
> with complex names for 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9.
>> So, you mean, (with a base 3 system) "tu wan ala wan" for the base-3
> number 2101 (64 in decimal)?yes
> But the significance of some number strings change (and
> 
> we do need a separator sometimes). Someday, we are going to have
> to decide how to do this. My
> 
> own preference seems to be (at the moment anyhow) to do a thorough
> decimal notation, with new
> 
> terms for digits and for major levels (10, 100, 1,000 and then for
> each three-power) but make the
> 
> whole thing outside of tp proper, rather like proper names are now
> (a fraud, but a familiar one).
> I'm not sure I understand what you mean; could you give an example?Of what? Ten digit names: ala thru lukin tu tu, but reduced to single words. Grouping words (Ilike the scientific ones: teka, kilo, meka, kika, and so on as well as tesi,senti, and so ongoing downward). Cluster word before the first numeral, subsequent numeralsassumed to godownward, blocks of zeros elidable by using another cluster word to start thenext non-zero group:12003.4 as (say) kilo teka wan tu ala ala te tesi po or kilo teka wan tu mono tedesi po. Thepoint is that one could use tp for a long time without knowing any of this, solong as one avoided(as one should in a primitive agrarian community) big or precise numbers. wan tu
> 
> Well, the Latin alphabet is soooo handy and works very well for
> tp. Of couse, Japanese kana might
> 
> be even more iconic for tp and it can be found for computers, but
> it is not very popular. And new
> 
> special tp symbols aren't generally on computers.
>> I like Japanese kana for tp.It is pretty (either form) and , as I said, natural for tp in some sense. Butno one is going tolearn it just for tp and it might get someone off from learning tp. So we stickwith Latin formoast purposes (kana looks nice for poetry and calligraphy and the like).
> 
> Reading habits seem to be a major source of left/right words and
> also east/west (north/south are
> 
> settled --
 equally eurocentrically --
 with lete/seli).
>> Really? Well, I guess as we get more Australians learning tp, that
> will probably change.Mebbe, but it is built into the lessons.
> I am not quite sure why the choice of pini
> 
> for left (nor kama for right): in reading habits, left is the
> beginning, not the end.
>> I chose those by analogy with "tenpo pini" and "tenpo kama." The
> finished direction would be left, and the direction of what comes
> would be right.I sorta see it, but prefer "open" and "pini"
>