---
author: "Christoph Mewes"
date: 2007-04-06T06:41:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
hi.
> 
> 
> 
> I'm not sure this is best thought of as a relative clause
> 
> rather than a complex modifier: "tool
> 
> 
> for thread becoming cloth." The more complicated cases do seem
> 
> easiest to do in English as
> 
> 
> relative clauses --
 but only restrictive ones, I think. Non-
> 
> restrictive are still best as
> 
> 
> separate sentences . As are restrictive ones when clarity is
> 
> more imporatant that concision
> 
> 
> (though sentences need not be much longer). I've heard ofi still prefer spliting up the sentences. i don't have a problem understanding alot of stort sentences. i \*do\* have a problem of getting the meaning if somebodyjumps at me with a complex sentence using lots of "pi". the above sentence is agood example, try telling that to somebody and just see how long it takes themto get the meaning. and that's even when it's written, i doubt anybody could getthat when spoken.
> 
> 
> Numbers seem to be the only (or at least the main) where raw tp
> 
> gives results that everyone thinks
> 
> 
> are unacceptable. There have been half-a-dozen suggestions
> 
> about what to do about this.i'd like to point out that there's still a big number of people who think thatwe don't need big numbers at all. no matter what system they are in.
> 
> 
> Reading habits seem to be a major source of left/right words
> 
> and also east/west (north/south are
> 
> 
> settled --
 equally eurocentrically --
 with lete/seli).
> 
>> 
> Really? Well, I guess as we get more Australians learning tp,
> 
> that will probably change.
>> Mebbe, but it is built into the lessons.
>> 
> I am not quite sure why the choice of pini
> 
> 
> for left (nor kama for right): in reading habits, left is the
> 
> beginning, not the end.
> 
>> 
> I chose those by analogy with "tenpo pini" and "tenpo kama." The
> 
> finished direction would be left, and the direction of what comes
> 
> would be right.
>> I sorta see it, but prefer "open" and "pini"i think these are just plain missing from the language. and given the currentmindset of words in TP, i wouldn't think too much about north/south, since itcan be described easily in context (for example: the direction that the sun is,for northern hemisphere folks). left and right are relative to the speakersrotation, so i think we need another way of telling.personally i liked the: "side where your heart is at" phrase, but it might be alittle too complex :)toki,Fossi=