---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-04-06T12:06:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Christoph Mewes <[fossi@iname.com](mailto://fossi@iname.com)\
> wrote:

> hi.
>> 
> 
> 
> 
> I'm not sure this is best thought of as a relative clause
> 
> 
> rather than a complex modifier: "tool
> 
> 
> 
> for thread becoming cloth." The more complicated cases do seem
> 
> 
> easiest to do in English as
> 
> 
> 
> relative clauses --
 but only restrictive ones, I think. Non-
> 
> 
> restrictive are still best as
> 
> 
> 
> separate sentences . As are restrictive ones when clarity is
> 
> 
> more imporatant that concision
> 
> 
> 
> (though sentences need not be much longer). I've heard of
>> i still prefer spliting up the sentences. i don't have a problem understandinga lot of stort
> sentences. i \*do\* have a problem of getting the meaning if somebody jumps atme with a complex
> sentence using lots of "pi". the above sentence is a good example, try tellingthat to somebody
> and just see how long it takes them to get the meaning. and that's even whenit's written, i
> doubt anybody could get that when spoken.Weel, I suppose we could learn to say it abd even to understand it eentually,but I don't think itis very tp to do so.
>> 
> 
> 
> Numbers seem to be the only (or at least the main) where raw tp
> 
> 
> gives results that everyone thinks
> 
> 
> 
> are unacceptable. There have been half-a-dozen suggestions
> 
> 
> about what to do about this.
>> i'd like to point out that there's still a big number of people who think thatwe don't need big
> numbers at all. no matter what system they are in.But there is also a big number that think we need them at least sometimes. Thisis the presentcenter around which the nearly inevitable split among tpers is forming Theextrasystematic numbersystem is a step toward providing at least a temporary glue.
>> 
> 
> 
> Reading habits seem to be a major source of left/right words
> 
> 
> and also east/west (north/south are
> 
> 
> 
> settled --
 equally eurocentrically --
 with lete/seli).
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> Really? Well, I guess as we get more Australians learning tp,
> 
> 
> that will probably change.
> 
>> 
> Mebbe, but it is built into the lessons.
> 
>> 
> 
> I am not quite sure why the choice of pini
> 
> 
> 
> for left (nor kama for right): in reading habits, left is the
> 
> 
> beginning, not the end.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> I chose those by analogy with "tenpo pini" and "tenpo kama." The
> 
> 
> finished direction would be left, and the direction of what comes
> 
> 
> would be right.
> 
>> 
> I sorta see it, but prefer "open" and "pini"
>> i think these are just plain missing from the language. and given the currentmindset of words
> in TP, i wouldn't think too much about north/south, since it can be describedeasily in context
> (for example: the direction that the sun is, for northern hemisphere folks).left and right are
> relative to the speakers rotation, so i think we need another way of telling.
>> personally i liked the: "side where your heart is at" phrase, but it might bea little too
> complex :)Well, the geographic dirction might be avoidable; the body ones do not seem tobe (and thegeographic ones would come in pretty early even in an agrarian ideal state). But again, if tp isto be a language for ordinary use, these sorts of question need to be faced. Oreven if the issueis how much can be said with how little they are theoretical goals.
> toki,
> Fossi
>> =
>>