---
author: "Lluís Batlle"
date: 2006-09-13T15:17:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
sina toki kepeken toki pona la sina li pilin pona e sona. :)2006/9/13, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
>:That seems to be a different notion than what the tool is for. A particular tool is meant to do aparticular job and we may well intend that that job be good, but that doesn't mean that theprupose of the tool is to do good. For most people, every tool is to do good, but each is to do aspecific step approaching that goal.---
 AJK <[ikojba@gmail.com](mailto://ikojba@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> Use tawa: ilo ni li ilo tawa pali pona. This tool is a tool meant to do good
> // Äˆi tiu ilo estas ilo por bonfari.
> 
> 
> 2006/9/12, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
>:
> 
>> 
> We have "A kepeken B" for "A uses B" and "C ilo" for "C is a tool" but
> 
> there seem to be no cases
> 
> so far where we say A uses B \*for\*, what C is a tool \*for\*. The closest we
> 
> come is "D E kepeken
> 
> F" "D does E using F," which, while related, does not really apply (unless
> 
> we know some pattern
> 
> for preps becoming verbs or verbs becoming preps without dropping or
> 
> adding).
> 
> There seem to be a small range of possibilities:
> 
>> 
> 1. For "kepeken" the purpose for which B is used is the object "A kepeken
> 
> B e G" (which would be
> 
> related to "A G' kepeken B" --
 G' shifting G to verb from noun).The same
> 
> might also work for
> 
> "ilo:" "A ilo e B" for "A is a tool for B."
> 
>> 
> 2. For "ilo," however, it seems more natural to take the purpose as a
> 
> modifier "A ilo B" "A is a
> 
> tool for B." This woulds also open the possibility that "ilo" might havea
> 
> prepositional use for at
> 
> least some kinds of purpose "A B ilo C" A does B to bring about C" or some
> 
> such. This would allow
> 
> some stop to the spreading area said to be covered by "tawa" (and "lon").
> 
>> 
> 3.The third possibility would be to follow English again (but this is
> 
> always a suspect pattern,
> 
> "malglico" "bad Englishing" in Lojban) and introduce the purpose with
> 
> "tawa." Aside from the
> 
> English element, this also seems wrong inherently, since the notion of a
> 
> purposed activity or
> 
> objects seems inherent in the notion of using something or of something
> 
> being a tool --
 a tool is
> 
> always a tool for some use, using something is always for some further
> 
> goal.
> 
>> 
> sina mute li pilin e seme.
> 
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> 
> --
 
> sencele, sentaÅ­ge, senhonte
> la radio de la tutmonda junularo
> junula radio internacia
> [http://junularadiointernacia.eu.tt/](http://junularadiointernacia.eu.tt/)\
>