---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-09-14T19:09:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 matthewdeanmartin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> wrote:

> Interesting.
>> 
> The prefixed conditions are just that, conditions under which the
> assertion following is true.
>> If the "la" phrase is a precondition, wouldn't we translate "pona la mi musi
> e musi kalama" as "when (things) are good, I play music"?
>Perhaps; but that would usually be sentential. Here it is more a comment on thesentence as awhole (cf. ken la, kin la, tenpo la): "it is good that ...."
>> Another possible attempt to modify verbs:
>> pona la mi musi li toki li pali. I play, speak, work well (all three of
> them I do well)I would have said "mi musi li toki li pali pona" (with the usual right hand endproblems "decidedby context")
> mi musi pona li toki li pali. I play music well, I speak (but not
> particularly well), I work (but not particularly well)
>The tricky one is when you want to restrict "pona" just to "pali," I think.
>> I keep reasoning from analogies from English, so I looked up how other
> languages are handling adverbs, two interesting patterns:
>I'm not sure I see analogies with English in all this so far. The English formsseem mainly to be like "pona" at the end, with various suprasegmentals differentiating thevarious readins (s nohelp in written discourse).
>> Arabic style (cognate accusative):
>> mi lete e lete ike. I slept a troubled sleep.
>Nice, except "lete" as a transitive verb means (quite regularly) "put to sleep,"Of course, withthis object the desired reading would probably be forced.
>> With propositions (like Irish)
>> Mi lete kepeken lon ike. I slept with a bad experience (using lon as noun).
>> Or maybe: mi lete kepeken ike
>Not sure about "kepeken" here, this doesn't seem to jibe well with the notion ofusing somethingas a tool. But the limits of "kepeken" (and most prepositions) has not beentested. Maybe just"lete ike" of "lete pi pilin ike" or some such.
>> Also, if we can create obscure or obvious idioms (i.e. compound words) for(Not compound words for the reasons already cited)
> verbs, they look just like verbs + adverbs, which makes me want to move the
> adverb to the la phrase to reduce ambiguity. (For example kama olin, wili
> moku, pilin wawa, wili mute, which all appear to be unofficial compound
> (idiomatic) verbs, or verbs with help verbs)
>Well, "kama" and "wile," at least, are modals, which take a following predicate.Of course, theycan also take adverbs and context has to sort out the various cases (althoughthe word involved isoften enough)
>> mi kama olin-Lovingly, I arrive. I fall in love. Could mean either one
>> olin la mi kama. I lovingly arrive
>I would suppose that in the adverbial reading of the first one says that I amloving; it is notclear what the prefix sense is but it might be expected to be more generic.
>> mi pilin wawa-I feel powerful. I powerfully feel (something). Ambiguous
>> wawa la mi pilin-I powerfully feel (something).
>>>> mi wili moku mute - I want to eat a lotmi wile moku e mute. Yours is "I am very hungry" (which, English being what sheis, may be whatyou meant by your gloss). "mi wile mute moku" is maybe clearer, getting theadverb closer to itsbase, though a literal translation into English falls into the same ambiguity.
> mute la mi wili moku - I really want to eat
>This is the most plausible case for your idea so far (though "olin" is probablyclose). Theproblem then becomes figuring out how to deal with the well establishedcondition usages: theydon't seem to fit into the same semantic (indeed, grammatic) realm.
>> Any opinions?
>>>> Matthew Martin
>>>> \_\_\_\_\_
>> From: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com) \[mailto:[tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\] On Behalf
> Of John E Clifford
> Sent: Friday, September 14, 2007 12:24 PM
> To: [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com)\
> Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] adverbs
>>>>> ---
 matthewdeanmartin <matt@suburbandestin
> <mailto:matt%40suburbandestiny.com
> y.com
> wrote:

>> 
> toki,
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> Sorry I can't pose this question in toki pona. ike la mi pilin. mi li ken
> 
> ala ni: mi toki e nimi kulupu ni lon toki pona.
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> I haven't found enough linguistic technical jargon. mi sona ala e nimi pi
> 
> sona toki.
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> Are both of these grammatical ways to express the adverb "well" and have
> the
> 
> same meaning?
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> \*pona la\* mi musi e musi kalama. I play music well.
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> mi musi \*pona\* e musi kalama. I play music well.
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> mi tawa,
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> jan Matthew Martin
> 
>> I wouldn't think so. The prefixed conditions are just that, conditions under
> which the assertion
> following is true. "pona la" probably means something like "Happily," in its
> by-the-way sense.
> In so far as they modify anything, they modify the whole following sentence
> not just the verb,
> say. But all of this needs some further discussion; thanks for raising the
> issue.
>>>>