---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-09-15T12:49:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 [MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com) wrote:

> In a message dated 9/14/2007 6:31:16 PM Central Daylight Time,
> [clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net) writes:

>>> 
> The problem is that it can also be after (modify) them all and there is no
> 
> way to tell which is
> 
> meant except context (which is not likely to be very useful in this
> 
> example). Note that, in
> 
> written form, the English is identically ambiguous.
> 
>> 
> 
>> I see. I thought the scope would only be the immediately applicable phrase,
> not the several preceding clauses. Thus
>> jan li pona li suli li wawa
>> has three distinct predicates, and adding a modifier to one can't affect the
> others.
>> I still think that, but others may think differently.
>> So whereas the English is ambiguous because the adverb and modify the several
> preceding verbs, the Toki Pona is not ambiguous because there is only the one
> verb preceding the modifier. The other verbs are separate predicates and
> each must have its own modifier, even if it's the same.
>> This is the way I want Toki Pona to work. It may not be the way it actually
> does work.
>> jan Setepo / stevo </HTML
>Well, the actual cases are all ambiguous, with the context (i.e., the way I wasinclined whilereading it) going sometimes one way, sometimes the other. I never checked withthe source. I dothink that a human language is unlikely to endure "mi musi pona li toki pona lipali pona," butthat may just be my frame of mind at the moment.