---
author: "Harry Coburn"
date: 2007-05-04T14:26:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I've been thinking about the desire for keeping the language simple and the desire to be able to use it functionally in a modern worldview. I feel there are several ways I feel TP could be approached. 1. TP as an IAL. I don't believe this is the intention of the language but if it were to be used as an IAL then the grammar would have to be extended/vocabulary combinations developed to be able to function in a modern 21st century culture. We'd have to change the language to fit our current mindset, as modern society is far more complex that the sort of society presented by TP. More on this in a bit. 2. TP as a personal language, purely for amusement. 3. TP as an exploration of the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis. By letting go of your current languages as completely as you can and conforming your thought-processes to TP it can be used as a tool for mental/conceptual exploration. If the first way is your goal this might be something to try first to see what is really vital for clear communication and what is unnecessary and extend the language in ways that are a necessity to survive. 4. TP as an anthropological/philosophical tool. Assume a small culture once existed that used TP as it currently stands. By learning this language and using it we're trying to get into their heads and discovering what concepts are really important to them, and which ones aren't. This differs from three by projecting the language onto a fictional culture and playing with how that culture would live their lives and think their thoughts rather than applying it directly to your own headspace. Of course, your ideas may differ from another person's entirely. I can see TP being used by both Daoist scholars and party loving island dwellers. ------------------------
 A few philosophical items are already laid out by the creator at [http://www.tokipona.org/intro.html](http://www.tokipona.org/intro.html), namely: pona is the fundamental value. Simplicity, goodness and improvement is inherent in pona. Fundamental ideas are more important than specificity of meaning. Ambiguous communication can result in a closer connection with existence and relationships. pona can be used to overcome ike. I'm still trying to decide my way. What do you all think about this? jan Eli