---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-05-04T15:01:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Nice summary and some added ideas.---
 Harry Coburn <[mattibun@gmail.com](mailto://mattibun@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> I've been thinking about the desire for keeping the language simple and the
> desire to be able to use it functionally in a modern worldview. I feel there
> are several ways I feel TP could be approached.
>> 1. TP as an IAL. I don't believe this is the intention of the language but
> if it were to be used as an IAL then the grammar would have to be
> extended/vocabulary combinations developed to be able to function in a
> modern 21st century culture. We'd have to change the language to fit our
> current mindset, as modern society is far more complex that the sort of
> society presented by TP. More on this in a bit.I think that this is still a remote idea, but I think that at least some peopleare moving in thisdirection. An intemediate stage --
 related to toher views as well --
 is todiscover what in themodern world cannot be handled adequately by tp as it exists now. So far, I getthe impressionthat nothing has yet been found. The only significant issue to arise (and thatonly obliquely) iswhether some expressions are too long for their intended use. Desling with thatthen might becomea core around which an expanded tp might devekop. It is also possible that somevocabulary wouldneed to be added (the numbers being the obvious point now) and --
 in dealingwith the lenghtproblem --
 some existing vocabulary might need to be modified (depending on howthis problem isdealt with). At the moment, people are only asking to be able to say what theywant to say nowmwithoyut a more general goal in mind.
> 2. TP as a personal language, purely for amusement.This is, of course a major source of interest. It cuts across the othercategories, however, forsome want to play with it the shrink the necessary concepts with which they dealwith the worlod== linguistic yoga, as it were --
 while others want to use the language for alltheir everydayuses (keeping a diary or a blog or ...). These interests do feed into thegeneral controversy.
> 3. TP as an exploration of the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis. By letting go of your
> current languages as completely as you can and conforming your
> thought-processes to TP it can be used as a tool for mental/conceptual
> exploration. If the first way is your goal this might be something to try
> first to see what is really vital for clear communication and what is
> unnecessary and extend the language in ways that are a necessity to survive.I'll spare you my screed on the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis. Sufficient to say thatI have never seensomething proposed that was both a genuinely scientific hypothesis and also hadanyting to do witheither Sapir or Whorf. I suppose this means something like this: leearning tospeak a differentlanguage changes one's perceptions and the way one thinks. How this get fleshedout is vital,since, as it stands, it is either boringly true or blatantly false. I suspectthat this comesdoen in the end --
in the case of tp --
 with whether learning the language helpscertain(ill-defined for now) meditation practices and the corresponding way of dealingwith the world,where the test for adequacy are subjective: does the speaker feel thedifference, is he satisfied?AAlthough a lot of people talk abvout this, I don't know anybody who is actuallyputting it intopractice; I would like to hear from those I've missed.
> 4. TP as an anthropological/philosophical tool. Assume a small culture once
> existed that used TP as it currently stands. By learning this language and
> using it we're trying to get into their heads and discovering what concepts
> are really important to them, and which ones aren't. This differs from three
> by projecting the language onto a fictional culture and playing with how
> that culture would live their lives and think their thoughts rather than
> applying it directly to your own headspace. Of course, your ideas may differ
> from another person's entirely. I can see TP being used by both Daoist
> scholars and party loving island dwellers.
>This is an interesting new one, though not unrelated to 3, as you say. Theiodea is now not togains some state of mental simplicity but rather to try to get inside the skullsof people whohave such a simple language (not presupposing that you know already what goes ontheir: Daoistswere remarkably ill=prpeared to deal with real agrarian workers, who didn't want"full belly,empty head" at all). I think that here tp moves over, at least in part,to therealm of anartlang, a language designed to fit an imagined culture. With the switch, ofcourse, that theculture is made to fit the language and, perhaps, that there is some empiricaltesting in mind, sothat one could say yea or nay to the question "Is this the culture of thislanguage?"
>> A few philosophical items are already laid out by the creator at
> [http://www.tokipona.org/intro.html](http://www.tokipona.org/intro.html), namely:
>> pona is the fundamental value. Simplicity, goodness and improvement is
> inherent in pona.As often remarked, having said that, in fact the negative elements in tpoutnumber the positive byabout 2 to 1. (one "good", two "bad", "death" but not "life," "screw up" butnot "succeed" andso on.)
> Fundamental ideas are more important than specificity of meaning.Depends on what you're about. If you are planting crops (a typical Daoisttask), then you betterknow cash crop from weed, lumping them together as kili kiwen is a disaster.
> Ambiguous communication can result in a closer connection with existence and
> relationships.A fine S-Wish sort of remark. Ambiguous communication can also cut you off fromrealityaltogether.
> pona can be used to overcome ike.And, as the world shows, ike can be used to overcome pona --
 and often is.
> I'm still trying to decide my way. What do you all think about this?
>> jan Eli
>