---
author: "Harry Coburn"
date: 2007-05-04T16:09:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I got my ideas for number four from my courses in Old English Literature, running across words that didn't have easy Modern English translations but were seen as holding very high 'value' in the culture. If the concept is important enough to make its own discrete word rather than be combination of previous words then it's something to study. TP, as of this time, is locked to 118 concepts and an impressive amount of flexiblity to rearrange these concepts in various ways to describe the world. If we were going to look at TP as an artlang, we could start by looking at environment: Exposed to land, sea, and air forms of life. (On an island or a coastline, assuming small population.)In a location with edible plants and water (Not a desert)Low precipitation (no direct concept for snow or ice, or even rain. Just modifications of telo) jan Eli On 5/4/07, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:
Nice summary and some added ideas.---
 Harry Coburn <[mattibun@gmail.com](mailto://mattibun@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> I've been thinking about the desire for keeping the language simple and the
> desire to be able to use it functionally in a modern worldview. I feel there
> are several ways I feel TP could be approached.
> 
> 1. TP as an IAL. I don't believe this is the intention of the language but
> if it were to be used as an IAL then the grammar would have to be
> extended/vocabulary combinations developed to be able to function in a
> modern 21st century culture. We'd have to change the language to fit our
> current mindset, as modern society is far more complex that the sort of
> society presented by TP. More on this in a bit.I think that this is still a remote idea, but I think that at least some people are moving in thisdirection. An intemediate stage --
 related to toher views as well --
 is to discover what in themodern world cannot be handled adequately by tp as it exists now. So far, I get the impressionthat nothing has yet been found. The only significant issue to arise (and that only obliquely) iswhether some expressions are too long for their intended use. Desling with that then might becomea core around which an expanded tp might devekop. It is also possible that some vocabulary wouldneed to be added (the numbers being the obvious point now) and --
 in dealing with the lenghtproblem --
 some existing vocabulary might need to be modified (depending on how this problem isdealt with). At the moment, people are only asking to be able to say what they want to say nowmwithoyut a more general goal in mind.
> 2. TP as a personal language, purely for amusement.This is, of course a major source of interest. It cuts across the other categories, however, forsome want to play with it the shrink the necessary concepts with which they deal with the worlod== linguistic yoga, as it were --
 while others want to use the language for all their everydayuses (keeping a diary or a blog or ...). These interests do feed into the general controversy.
> 3. TP as an exploration of the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis. By letting go of your
> current languages as completely as you can and conforming your
> thought-processes to TP it can be used as a tool for mental/conceptual
> exploration. If the first way is your goal this might be something to try
> first to see what is really vital for clear communication and what is
> unnecessary and extend the language in ways that are a necessity to survive.I'll spare you my screed on the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis. Sufficient to say that I have never seensomething proposed that was both a genuinely scientific hypothesis and also had anyting to do witheither Sapir or Whorf. I suppose this means something like this: leearning to speak a differentlanguage changes one's perceptions and the way one thinks. How this get fleshed out is vital,since, as it stands, it is either boringly true or blatantly false. I suspect that this comesdoen in the end --
in the case of tp --
 with whether learning the language helps certain(ill-defined for now) meditation practices and the corresponding way of dealing with the world,where the test for adequacy are subjective: does the speaker feel the difference, is he satisfied?AAlthough a lot of people talk abvout this, I don't know anybody who is actually putting it intopractice; I would like to hear from those I've missed.
> 4. TP as an anthropological/philosophical tool. Assume a small culture once
> existed that used TP as it currently stands. By learning this language and
> using it we're trying to get into their heads and discovering what concepts
> are really important to them, and which ones aren't. This differs from three
> by projecting the language onto a fictional culture and playing with how
> that culture would live their lives and think their thoughts rather than
> applying it directly to your own headspace. Of course, your ideas may differ
> from another person's entirely. I can see TP being used by both Daoist
> scholars and party loving island dwellers.
> This is an interesting new one, though not unrelated to 3, as you say. The iodea is now not togains some state of mental simplicity but rather to try to get inside the skulls of people whohave such a simple language (not presupposing that you know already what goes on their: Daoistswere remarkably ill=prpeared to deal with real agrarian workers, who didn't want "full belly,empty head" at all). I think that here tp moves over, at least in part,to the realm of anartlang, a language designed to fit an imagined culture. With the switch, of course, that theculture is made to fit the language and, perhaps, that there is some empirical testing in mind, sothat one could say yea or nay to the question "Is this the culture of this language?" 
> 
> A few philosophical items are already laid out by the creator at
> [http://www.tokipona.org/intro.html](http://www.tokipona.org/intro.html), namely:
> 
> pona is the fundamental value. Simplicity, goodness and improvement is
> inherent in pona.As often remarked, having said that, in fact the negative elements in tp outnumber the positive byabout 2 to 1. (one "good", two "bad", "death" but not "life," "screw up" but not "succeed" andso on.)
> Fundamental ideas are more important than specificity of meaning.Depends on what you're about. If you are planting crops (a typical Daoist task), then you betterknow cash crop from weed, lumping them together as kili kiwen is a disaster.
> Ambiguous communication can result in a closer connection with existence and
> relationships.A fine S-Wish sort of remark. Ambiguous communication can also cut you off from realityaltogether.
> pona can be used to overcome ike.And, as the world shows, ike can be used to overcome pona --
 and often is.
> I'm still trying to decide my way. What do you all think about this?
> 
> jan Eli
>