---
author: "Harry Coburn"
date: 2007-05-04T20:23:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Put into a fictionalized culture situation I see these two viewpoints this way: 1. Weary of the complexity of the world you learn of a culture that views simplicity as a fundamental good and has a language that goes with it. You travel there and learn the language, trying to understand the culture and adapt to it, much like a emigrant would in a new country. They may never become as pona as a native, but it's something to try for. 2. You've been in this society, but you're finding the simple ways of your people to be very boring. Having heard stories of the outside world you leave your land and start running into things and concepts that are difficult to phrase clearly in your native tongue, so you think for a time and formulate new expressions and idioms to describe what you're seeing, and perhaps change the language even further depending on what you encounter. Right now my focus is on learning the language as it is currently formulated in Pije's lessons and the list of nimi ale on tokipona.org. I'd like to find the limits of TP and then see what people have proposed to handle that situation. It's another reason why I'm translating these fables and hopefully more difficult texts later. So far I've noticed that it's much easier to simplify the sentences as much as possible and break up compounds, translate into TP and then recombine if necessary. Tense is also something that, for my mind at least, doesn't need to be marked unless absolutely necessary. I feel we give up flowery storytelling for directness of meaning.  jan Eli On 5/4/07, galactonerd <[galactonerd@yahoo.com](mailto://galactonerd@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:
jan Eli o toki!This is, as you may have seen, a huge debate within the Toki Ponacommunity: should we adapt the language to fit us or adapt ourselvesto fit the language? Most people who speak the language will tell youthat you should do the latter, while some (myself included) willencourage the former. You can do whatever you want with it, but someof us are trying to expand the language so that we can talk about morethan what the Toki Pona philosophy allows and use more complicatedsentences.The same debate exists in the Latin-speaking community. Some of themfeel that using Latin to talk about modern things insults the wholereason they learned Latin in the first place (i.e. to learn medievaland Roman history), while others feel that modern Latin speakersshould be able to talk about the modern world, so they use phrases ofexisting Latin words--
there's a website of computer terminology inLatin ([http://obta.uw.edu.pl/~draco/docs/voccomp.html](http://obta.uw.edu.pl/~draco/docs/voccomp.html)) and a list ofwords for modern things([http://users.adelphia.net/~florusc/anglice/ansearch.html](http://users.adelphia.net/~florusc/anglice/ansearch.html)). I'm surethis debate exists in any language that currently has no native speakers.I think an IAL would be a great use of Toki Pona, as its smallvocabulary and simple grammar makes it easy to learn. I believe infreedom of speech, so I don't really like the idea that we shouldn'tsay something just because the creator of Toki Pona didn't invent away to say it. Besides, jan Pije's website has video games in TokiPona and it's one of the major ones, so I think if jan Pije is allowedto talk about things found in the world of The Legend of Zelda, Ithink it's all right for us to talk about other things the language"wasn't designed" to talk about.You might find this site useful:[http://talideon.com/concultures/wiki/?doc=TestSentencesAlso](http://talideon.com/concultures/wiki/?doc=TestSentencesAlso), look at the translation challenges at the zompist bboard([http://www.spinnoff.com/zbb/](http://www.spinnoff.com/zbb/)) in the "Conlangery & Conworlds" section.If you're interested in expanding the language, those will be usefulin seeing what needs work.Hope that helps!jan Sosuwa/Josh ---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), "Harry Coburn" <mattibun@...
> wrote:

>> I've been thinking about the desire for keeping the language simpleand the
> desire to be able to use it functionally in a modern worldview. Ifeel there
> are several ways I feel TP could be approached.
> 
> 1. TP as an IAL. I don't believe this is the intention of thelanguage but
> if it were to be used as an IAL then the grammar would have to be
> extended/vocabulary combinations developed to be able to function in a
> modern 21st century culture. We'd have to change the language to fit our
> current mindset, as modern society is far more complex that the sort of
> society presented by TP. More on this in a bit.
> 
> 2. TP as a personal language, purely for amusement.
> 
> 3. TP as an exploration of the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis. By letting goof your
> current languages as completely as you can and conforming your
> thought-processes to TP it can be used as a tool for mental/conceptual
> exploration. If the first way is your goal this might be somethingto try
> first to see what is really vital for clear communication and what is
> unnecessary and extend the language in ways that are a necessity tosurvive.
> 
> 4. TP as an anthropological/philosophical tool. Assume a smallculture once
> existed that used TP as it currently stands. By learning thislanguage and
> using it we're trying to get into their heads and discovering whatconcepts
> are really important to them, and which ones aren't. This differsfrom three
> by projecting the language onto a fictional culture and playing with how
> that culture would live their lives and think their thoughts rather than
> applying it directly to your own headspace. Of course, your ideasmay differ
> from another person's entirely. I can see TP being used by both Daoist
> scholars and party loving island dwellers.
> 
> ------------------------

> 
> A few philosophical items are already laid out by the creator at
> [http://www.tokipona.org/intro.html](http://www.tokipona.org/intro.html), namely:
> 
> pona is the fundamental value. Simplicity, goodness and improvement is
> inherent in pona.
> 
> Fundamental ideas are more important than specificity of meaning.
> 
> Ambiguous communication can result in a closer connection withexistence and
> relationships.
> 
> pona can be used to overcome ike.
> 
> I'm still trying to decide my way. What do you all think about this?
> 
> jan Eli
>