---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2007-05-03T08:05:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
mi pilin e ni: "mi toki sike X" means that I talk round the subject X but avoid to address it directly. This is not what "talk about X" means. I would have liked to say this in tp but find it difficult to express "means" and "avoid" and "directly" in tp. jan sona pi toki pona o pana e sona ni tawa mi. jan ElumutuMarcos CRUZ <[tokipona@alinome.net](mailto://tokipona@alinome.net)\
> schrieb: 
> 
> Using "lon" to mean 'in' a language just seems wrong to me.
> 
> It's not located in the located, after all.
> 
>"kepeken" is much more to the point.I agree, I think "toki kepeken X" is the best for that. Also Esperanto uses "paroli \*en\* X", like many other languages, while "paroli per X" would make more sense, but it is almost unused.
> Agreed, if the complement is out.
> The interesting question is still "talk about."For "talk about X" I like "toki sike X". I think it's a kind of TP idiom but it has its logic. There's no need to think "sike" is a pseudopreposition there: The "metaphor" is clear to me also if "sike" is a normal modifier for the verb.Maybe I'm influenced by Spanish. In my language there are three different ways to say "about" in "talk about":1) the preposition "de" (="of")2) the preposition "sobre" (="on" or "over")3) the words "acerca de" (="at-near of")"acerca" is an arcaic adverb that comes from the latin "ad circa" (="at near"); in the present, "cerca" (near) isused, and "acerca" only remains in the expression I said before.So I see a relation beetwen "about", "near", "around"... and "circle".jan Mako--
 [http://alinome.net](http://alinome.net) Yahoo! Clever: Stellen Sie Fragen und finden Sie Antworten. Teilen Sie Ihr Wissen.