---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-05-04T20:31:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Harry Coburn <[mattibun@gmail.com](mailto://mattibun@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> Yes, I do agree all the ona makes it muddled. They are all waso suli, though
> that second one is strange
>> waso suli li utala li pakala - The eagle is struck and wounded
> palisa moli li utala li pakala - The arrow strikes and wounds.
>> Some direct objects would help.
>> ona li utala tan palisa moli li pakala. - He (the eagle) is struck by the
> arrow and is hurt.
> ona li utala e waso suli li pakala e waso suli. - It (the arrow) strikes the
> eagle and wounds the eagle.This does help
> Perhaps the last tawa moli should be kama moli. There's a timing question
> here.
>> tawa moli - move toward death
> kama moli - come to death, but also "start to death" and "arrive at death".If he is still talking, he ain't dead yet. I like the "tawa moli" (and forother processes thateventually kama) But I suppose "kama moli" might mean "right on the point ofdying" The whole(absent)tense/aspect in tp needs soem feeling around about.
> Given that most birds are feathered, selo waso makes the most sense to me.
> selo anpa waso perhaps for the actual skin of the bird?
>> jan Eli
>> ---------------------------------

>> With only one anaphoric pronoun, this can get muddling. I guess all the
> "ona" are the waso suli,
> except maybe the second (the arrow atacks, and wounds, but, since "pala;a"
> can mean "wounded" as
> well, ...).
>> I take "tawa moli" to be the ongoing process which end in "kama moli" do
> "dying" or maybe "tawa"
> has its usual meaning so "travelling while dying."
>> "selo" doesn't do much for "feather," but I don't know a better one at the
> moment.
>