---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2009-04-07T21:29:56+00:00
nestinglevel: 2
---
jan sewi ni li jan Kisina. nimi Gita li sona e kalama musi toki. nimi Bhagavad li sona e jan pi pana pona.  
  
  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
From: Kevyn <\*\*\*@yahoo.com>  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Sent: Tuesday, April 7, 2009 2:33:36 PM  
Subject: Re: \[tokipona\] Re: \[CONLANG\] LCC3 gift to Hillel: translate the Hillel the Elder's Golden Rule  
  
  
I think that:  
  
ijo li ike tawa sina la o pali ala e ike ni tawa jan ante.  
If something is bad for you, don't do this bad to others.  
  
"If one offers Me with love and devotion a leaf, a flower, fruit or water, I will accept it."  
"Se oni Min ofras ame kaj adoreme folion, floron, frukton au' akvon, Mi akceptos g'in."  
"jan li pana olin e kasi anu kasi kule anu kili anu telo tawa mi la mi kama jo e ona."  
Bhagavad Gita 9.26  
tan lipu toki sewi Kita 9.26  

> You're obviously welcome to do it in as many as you like, but FWIW for  
> the poster, it'll be one per person. So please let us know which you  
> want to be on it.  
> 

Does that apply to conlangs created by other people? I said at LCC3  
I'd do the Shema in Esperanto and Toki Pona as well as gzb; here's  
Hillel's version of the Golden rule in those languages:  
  
Tion, kio malagrablas al vi, ne faru al via proksimulo.  
  
pali ijo li ike tawa sina. o pali ala e ni tawa jan ante!  
  
(I'm open to suggestions from other Esperanto or Toki Pona  
speakers on the list about improving those. In particular,  
I wonder if "aliulo" or "kunulo" might be more apt than  
"proksimulo" (I chose the latter because it's used in related  
contexts in the Esperanto translation of the Bible, e.g.  
the parable of the Good Samaritan), and whether the  
two sentences in my Toki Pona version might should  
/ could be joined into one with "la". I'm disinclined to  
do so because of the length of the first clause.)  
\--  
Jim Henry  
http://www.pobox. com/~jimhenry/  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_  
Ask a question on any topic and get answers from real people. Go to Yahoo! Answers and share what you know at http://ca.answers. yahoo.com  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]