---
author: "jan_sewe"
date: 2009-03-31T22:32:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
jan Elumutu o, toki!Children who grew up in a forest among the monkeys up to the age of twelve havenotoriously become unable to further learn any language for the rest of theirlives (me Tarzan, you Jane). No doubt that similar consequences would hold forpure native Toki Pona speakers, as regards ability to master any more complexlanguage.But do we actually need to conduct such a crazy experiment to have confirmationof Sapir-Whorf's hypothesis? Whenever we express ourselves in Toki Pona, ourrange of thoughts gets noticeably smaller within dramatic proportions...Fortunately, we may always use another language whenever we need to clear up amissing detail!However I'd bet that, one day, there will be indeed some crazy men who wish tobring up pure native Toki Pona speakers completely isolated from any otherlanguage. And maybe even today, someone has already on their mind the madproject of becoming the guru of such a Toki Pona sect: all members would have touse Toki Pona exclusively, except perhaps the guru and a few privileged otherswho'd be allowed to communicate with each other in English or in Esperanto...:-)Toki Pona is a very pleasant language to use, for all the reasons that we've allexperienced. But I'm afraid that it might get used, someday, for gaining controlover somewhat fragile minds...mi tawa.jan Sewe---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), Helmut Voigt <akesi\_palisa@...
> wrote:

>> jan Sewe o, toki!
> Without having "native" toki pona speakers, it will never be possible toconfirm or falsify Sapir/Whorf's hypothesis. As a German interpreter of Arabicand English interpreting at Berlin schools more or less difficult discussionsbetween teachers, parents and pupils of non-German origin, I dare say thatlearning toki pona first would not in the least make anybody unable to masterother languages soon after. I know dozens of Arab children who talk in goodArabic with their parents and good German with their teachers or nurses. So, Idon't think that learning toki pona first would be in any way disadvantageous.Besides,  toki pona is so easy that even a child of 1 1/2 years (maybe) couldeasily start to express him/herself better than using baby English/German/anyother language. If this assumption were correct, it might lead to revolutionarychanges in the views to speech-learning in early childhood. But without testing,we will probably never know
> whether toki pona is or is not the ideal tool for (linguistic) understandingbetween adults and small children.
> Just as not being misunderstood: of course, children have also be taught thenative language of their country before going to school. But at home, toki ponais "pona mute tawa mi".
> jan Elumutu