---
author: "spad0103"
date: 2006-03-19T10:02:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), John E Clifford <clifford-j@...
>wrote:

>> I guess a language type picture is as right or
> righter (but I am having trouble maybe with NA
> order?) as/than a picture language , 'toki
> sitelen,' which is what I went back to look for
> when I didn't get 'sitelen toki,' which I read as
> "writing in a language."sitelen toki = drawing the speech = writingIt can't be more explicit...
> I have gotten 'tawa' in my head as "to" but I
> know it moves beyond simple direction, mainly in
> the same way English "to" and that move includes
> the dative as in "give to," but I didn't get from
> there to the dative "for" as in "make ~ for toki
> pona." What are the limits on 'tawa'?tawa means a direction, a movement. It can be takenas "to", "towards", "for"...
> The translation gets a little free with the
> clause: "This is a good picture/drawing" --

> "ideography" by context.I translated some sentences with a lot of freedom, because toki ponawas too approximate to explain scientific words...
> I read the next as "Not me made all the pictures"
> --
 I suppose the 'ala' modifes 'pali,' when can
> it precede?I'm sorry, I just made a mistake. I wanted to say "mi pali alasitelen ali."
> The two pages which offer to rewrite names or
> phrases are not working at the moment (well,
> maybe half an hour ago now).Not working? It works for me and for other people whom I asked totry it... weird. Maybe it only works if you have Internet Explorer.
> Does the name writer use a syllabary over an
> above the ideography? There aren't ideograms
> corresonding to all the syllables, just many of
> the words.Ideograms are made to represent the word in its concept. Syllabaryrepresents the sounds of the name. I will make a page to explain howto write it.
> The iconography involved here doesn't match my
> sense of iconicity; are there some principles for
> the construction of the symbols? Many of them
> seem similar enought that I looked for patterns
> in the differences but I am afraid I don't get it
> (either, alas).Yes, many of them are similar, because it was easier for me to takeold symbols to create new ones! But I didn't make patterns for everyideogram. My only rule is to make ideograms that are quickly drawn.I favoured the curve because I think it reflects the toki ponaideology.