---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-03-19T14:22:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Thank you. As I say, I am having trouble withthis language (which surprises me, since it seemsso simple). I think I am doing what has workedfor me before: guessing what is meant and thentrying to get the words to work for that. And itis not working here yet, or I am correcting as Igo along but not in the right way. Sorry about bringing my problems us (But I can't helpnoticing the ambiguity --
 I was expecting onlyvagueness --
 in something like "sitelen toki"between a noun-adjective construction and averb-noun one, or something like that anyhow:language-picture v. picture a language.)---
 spad0103 <[spad0103@yahoo.fr](mailto://spad0103@yahoo.fr)\
> wrote:
---------------------------------
<<---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), John EClifford <clifford-j@...
>wrote:

>> I guess a language type picture is as right or
> righter (but I am having trouble maybe with NA
> order?) as/than a picture language , 'toki
> sitelen,' which is what I went back to look for
> when I didn't get 'sitelen toki,' which I readas
> "writing in a language."sitelen toki = drawing the speech = writingIt can't be more explicit...
> I have gotten 'tawa' in my head as "to" but I
> know it moves beyond simple direction, mainlyin
> the same way English "to" and that moveincludes
> the dative as in "give to," but I didn't getfrom
> there to the dative "for" as in "make ~ fortoki
> pona." What are the limits on 'tawa'?tawa means a direction, a movement. It can betakenas "to", "towards", "for"...
>>I guess I never thought of "for" as a directionbefore (too much Latin? directions areaccusative, "for" is dative?) Note that I don'thave a different idea for how for "for" would berepresented.
> The translation gets a little free with the
> clause: "This is a good picture/drawing" --

> "ideography" by context.I translated some sentences with a lot offreedom, because toki ponawas too approximate to explain scientificwords...
> I read the next as "Not me made all thepictures"
> --
 I suppose the 'ala' modifes 'pali,' when can
> it precede?I'm sorry, I just made a mistake. I wanted to say"mi pali alasitelen ali."
> The two pages which offer to rewrite names or
> phrases are not working at the moment (well,
> maybe half an hour ago now).Not working? It works for me and for other peoplewhom I asked totry it... weird. Maybe it only works if you haveInternet Explorer.
> Does the name writer use a syllabary over an
> above the ideography? There aren't ideograms
> corresonding to all the syllables, just many of
> the words.Ideograms are made to represent the word in itsconcept. Syllabaryrepresents the sounds of the name. I will make apage to explain howto write it.
> The iconography involved here doesn't match my
> sense of iconicity; are there some principlesfor
> the construction of the symbols? Many of them
> seem similar enought that I looked for patterns
> in the differences but I am afraid I don't getit
> (either, alas).Yes, many of them are similar, because it waseasier for me to takeold symbols to create new ones! But I didn't makepatterns for everyideogram. My only rule is to make ideograms thatare quickly drawn.I favoured the curve because I think it reflectsthe toki ponaideology.
>>What old symbols? I like to think (misguidedly)that I keep up with these things, but I recognizevery few of these nor can I decipher many ofthem, though a few are familiar or clear to me,and some, when I think I do see a system, justdon't fit my understanding (but then I havedemonstrated that I don't get things when I thinI understand them but am wrong).