---
author: "Matthew Martin"
date: 2007-12-02 18:49:21 UTC
nestinglevel: 1
---
pona!  

> [_Post by cbnewham_](/8Ua1zkLu/new-member-some-questions#post1)  
> Are there any intentions to expand the official dictionary?  
> 

Sonja has said there will be 120 words, we currently have 119. The  
newest one was pan, "cereal/grain"  
  
John Clifford has informally compiled a dictionary of "idioms/compound  
words/word phrases" which has 3000 entries. I was working on slicing  
and dicing this to put it in the online dictionary I run, but haven't  
been able to find a large enough block of time.  

> [_Post by cbnewham_](/8Ua1zkLu/new-member-some-questions#post1)  
> I can't see how you could distinguish between cats and dogs (or,  
> 

indeed, other animals)?  
Lots of ways to do it:  
  
simplicity: soweli  
general category: soweli tomo \[domesticated animal\]  
talk until it's clear: .... \[example omitted for brevity\]....  
idiom: soweli pi linja uta (animal of the lined face, i.e. cat)  
  
Blood has been shed arguing what is the better or more tokiponian way  
of expressing cat or dog.  

> [_Post by cbnewham_](/8Ua1zkLu/new-member-some-questions#post1)  
> Autumn  
> 

"tenpo pi lete lili" is one way. The nice thing about toki pona is  
that the rules of the language do not stop you from coining a new  
phrase, which is the whole point.  
  
"monsi pi tenpo lete", "the rear of winter" is another possibility  
that I just made up. This uses the metaphor of "future is forward",  
which some may argue is too culturally specific to be used in toki  
pona.  

> [_Post by cbnewham_](/8Ua1zkLu/new-member-some-questions#post1)  
> Lastly, has anyone put any audio samples together to aid in pronunciation?  
> 

No, but to the extent that toki pona is defined by IPA phonetics, you  
can check out sites that have sound files for all IPA sounds  
http://www.ling.hf.ntnu.no/ipa/full/ This may not be the best such  
site, but these sites are very handy for conlang'ing in general.  
  
Because of the way Sonja chose the letters, you can make enormous  
shifts in pronunciation and will still likely to be intelligible.  
  
Personally, I've recorded some BYKI (before you know it flash cards)  
sound files in my heavy american english accent that I hope upload  
them to net someday.  
  
mi tawa,  
  
jan Matthew Martin  

> [_Post by cbnewham_](/8Ua1zkLu/new-member-some-questions#post1)  
> Hello,  
> I've only been looking at this language for a couple of days. As I'm  
> completely new to this (or any languages other than English) and  
> haven't had a chance yet to look back over the postings in this group,  
> please forgive me if this has been discussed before.  
> Are there any intentions to expand the official dictionary? I can't  
> see how you could distinguish between cats and dogs (or, indeed, other  
> animals)?  
> Also, there doesn't seem to be a way to represent autumn and spring.  
> Lastly, has anyone put any audio samples together to aid in  
> pronunciation? I think I've got it, although there appears to be some  
> ambiguity in the vowel "a"; even Sonja in her Canadian radio interview  
> seems to pronounce it differently in different words ("jan" and  
> "pona"). I've gone for the "ahh" sound as I would pronounce "father"  
> in England or Australia. Perhaps it is different in, for example, the  
> US (cf: "rather").  
>