---
author: "daraffa"
date: 2009-02-28T18:20:14+00:00
nestinglevel: 2
---
Thank you for the pronunciation help!  
  
I just found this site with TP pronunciations today:  
http://forvo.com/languages-pronunciations/x-tp/  
  
I think you asked me what country I live in. (you are in what land?)  
I live near Boston, Massachusetts in these USA.  
  
I have started to document my learning of TP on my website:  
http://aiki.pbwiki.com/Toki-Pona  
  
My 14 year old daughter has shown interest in learning TP, so  
hopefully I will be knowledgeable enough to teach TP to her this  
summer, when she is on summer vacation from school.  
  
Thank you for letting me join this group.  
Dave Raftery  

> [_Post by Liogab11_](/xv9VYnpE/question-on-pronunciation-of-vowel-e#post2)  
> Use the "eh" pronunciation. sina lon ma seme?  
> Subject: \[tokipona\] Question on pronunciation of vowel e  
> Date: Tuesday, 24 February, 2009, 11:11 AM  
> Hi, I just 'discovered' TP last week. I have memorized 30 vocabulary  
> words so far and completed the lessons on basic sentence structure,  
> direct objects and adjectives. I am confused at how the vowel e is  
> pronounced. Is telo pronounced tehlo or taylo? Is wile pronounced  
> weeleh or weelay? How is the e which introduces the direct object  
> pronounced, eh or ay?  
> I am looking forward to the day when I can post to this group in both  
> TP and English. Hopefully it won't be very long.  
> Thanks in advance for your help.  
> Dave Raftery  
> New Email addresses available on Yahoo!  
> Hurry before someone else does!  
> http://mail.promotions.yahoo.com/newdomains/aa/  
> \[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]  
>