---
author: "Liogab11"
date: 2009-03-02T10:29:48+00:00
nestinglevel: 3
---
ni li pona. mi wile e ni: sina en jan lili sina li kama jo e tenpo pona.  
  
jan Pusa  
\--- On Sun, 1/3/09, daraffa <\*\*\*@gmail.com> wrote:  
From: daraffa <\*\*\*@gmail.com>  
Subject: \[tokipona\] Re: Question on pronunciation of vowel e  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Date: Sunday, 1 March, 2009, 2:20 AM  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Thank you for the pronunciation help!  
  
  
  
I just found this site with TP pronunciations today:  
  
http://forvo. com/languages- pronunciations/ x-tp/  
  
  
  
I think you asked me what country I live in. (you are in what land?)  
  
I live near Boston, Massachusetts in these USA.  
  
  
  
I have started to document my learning of TP on my website:  
  
http://aiki. pbwiki.com/ Toki-Pona  
  
  
  
My 14 year old daughter has shown interest in learning TP, so  
  
hopefully I will be knowledgeable enough to teach TP to her this  
  
summer, when she is on summer vacation from school.  
  
  
  
Thank you for letting me join this group.  
  
Dave Raftery  

> [_Post by Liogab11_](/xv9VYnpE/question-on-pronunciation-of-vowel-e#post2)  
> Use the "eh" pronunciation. sina lon ma seme?  
> Subject: \[tokipona\] Question on pronunciation of vowel e  
> Date: Tuesday, 24 February, 2009, 11:11 AM  
> Hi, I just 'discovered' TP last week. I have memorized  
> 

30 vocabulary  

> [_Post by Liogab11_](/xv9VYnpE/question-on-pronunciation-of-vowel-e#post2)  
> words so far and completed the lessons on basic sentence structure,  
> direct objects and adjectives. I am confused at how the vowel e is  
> pronounced. Is telo pronounced tehlo or taylo? Is wile pronounced  
> weeleh or weelay? How is the e which introduces the direct object  
> pronounced, eh or ay?  
> I am looking forward to the day when I can post to this group in both  
> TP and English. Hopefully it won't be very long.  
> Thanks in advance for your help.  
> Dave Raftery  
> New Email addresses available on Yahoo!  
> 

@rocketmail.  

> [_Post by Liogab11_](/xv9VYnpE/question-on-pronunciation-of-vowel-e#post2)  
> Hurry before someone else does!  
> http://mail. promotions. yahoo.com/ newdomains/ aa/  
> \[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]  
> 

New Email addresses available on Yahoo!  
Get the Email name you&#39;ve always wanted on the new @ymail and @rocketmail.  
Hurry before someone else does!  
http://mail.promotions.yahoo.com/newdomains/aa/  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]