---
author: "Corey"
date: 2004-07-28T13:00:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Hey all,Lots of messages! Actually, yesterday I began my search of finding181 simple Chinese characters with the most accurate representationof the TP words. I'm completely avoiding phoneme/radical ideographsand I'm leaning more towards the entirely pictographic/ideographicones. It's coming quite well, I think I've covered about 30 words sofar.I also worked on a rough draft of an adaptation of Japanese katakanato TP. I've thought of a few different ways of using this:1) in conjunction with the above system, the katakana being usedfor "foreign" words2) as a separate system entirely3) in conjunction with the above system, katakana being used forhard to represent words such as "li", "pi", "sina", and "mi", as allof these are difficult to represent even ideographically----
So far, I really like the Chinese system because I've been able tofind quite a few simple characters to fit the words quite well (Iused the Chinese word "to be" for "li"). I also think this one isthe easiest, although maybe that's just because I've previouslystudied how Chinese characters are made up and I know quite a fewmyself.I really don't like the Katakana system, simply cause I think it'stoo many symbols to learn (hehe, even though the Chinese makes youlearn 180) for a simple system, and I also think that many of thesymbols are only different by one little dot or stroke. I'm doingthis (mainly) because I want a way to help me distinguish the words,not confuse myself even more. In the end, I'll most likely be usingit solely for idea 1 above (for "foreign words").----
I had another idea of adapting Arabic writing to TP, as well aslooking into the hieroglyphic idea. I also skimmed through thewriting section of my book on Biblical Hebrew and thought aboutusing that as well.I know it seems like a lot of different ideas running through myhead, but I'm mainly doing this for myself because I love foreignlanguages and writing systems and I love toki pona; what better wayto combine them then try to find the best foreign writing systemsuited to Toki Pona?I've had strong thoughts of starting my own Toki Pona page, and if Iever go through with that I'll be sure to make a section about myattempts with different writing systems. As for now, I'll keepeveryone updated on any findings I make.-jan Kowi