---
author: "Philip Newton"
date: 2004-08-01T12:43:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
On Wed, 28 Jul 2004 13:00:30 -0000, Corey <[n649po@yahoo.com](mailto://n649po@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

> yesterday I began my search of finding
> 181 simple Chinese characters with the most accurate representation
> of the TP words.Interesting; I had considered doing something similar as well at onepoint, and had also collected a list of likely characters. (I don'tremember whether I used Chinese or Japanese ones, though; while theyare, in theory, identical, in practise there can be slight meaningdifferences in their use in Chinese or Japanese, or a differentcharacter may be more common for a given concept.)Toki Pona seemed to me to lend itself well to this sort of thing,since its vocabulary is closed, so one needn't use a writing systemthat can represent any syllable at all, but only 118 specific things(except for foreign words).
> I'm completely avoiding phoneme/radical ideographs
> and I'm leaning more towards the entirely pictographic/ideographic
> ones.I didn't use that restriction, though. If the meaning fit fairly well,and it was a common character for that concept, I'd use it.
> I also worked on a rough draft of an adaptation of Japanese katakana
> to TP.\*nods\* I'd use kana for foreign words as well, though probably only ifI use a Japanese-kanji-based orthography rather than aChinese-hanzi-based one, which would tend to suggest zhuyin fuhao (aka"bopomofo") for foreign words. I'm not sure whether they fit thephonology well enough, though; haven't looked into it yet.Kana, on the other hand, fit the phonology of Toki Pona almostperfectly: if you use the r-row for the sounds beginning with l- inToki Pona (and possible the h-row kana for Toki Pona p- syllables soyou needn't use the "handakuten" circle to make "proper" Kana p-sounds), and if you press into service the two obsolete kana for "we"and "wi", the only problems are the missing syllable "je" - though onecould possible press "wo" into service for that since it won't beneeded.Korean Hangeul would also fit very well; the phonology seems as if itwas almost designed for those two languages (e.g. "wu" and "ji" arenot representable in kana, though neither is "je", while "wo" isrepresentable; neither "wu" nor "wo" nor "ji" would be representablein Hangeul).
> I've thought of a few different ways of using this:
>> 1) in conjunction with the above system, the katakana being used
> for "foreign" wordsThat's how I'd use it.
> 2) as a separate system entirelyI'd also considered a kana-only orthography, though - and ahangeul-only one, as well. Either would work.Though without capitalisation, I think that hangeul may not be such agood choice, while with kana one could use e.g. hiragana for "native"Toki Pona words and katakana for borrowed ones.On the other hand, one would have to use spaces, which is natural formodern Korean writing but not for modern Japanese writing - if youdon't use spaces, "kalalililimute" could be either "kala lili li mute"(there are many small fish) or "kala li lili mute" (the fish are verysmall), for example.There are also other ambiguities where one word is a prefix ofanother; sometimes one word can even be confused with two entire words(e.g. mani/ma ni; kalama/kala ma).
> 3) in conjunction with the above system, katakana being used for
> hard to represent words such as "li", "pi", "sina", and "mi", as all
> of these are difficult to represent even ideographicallyHm, though this system is not so nice aesthetically in my opinion -all vocabulary words should be treated identically.(And "mi" and "sina" seem easy to represent in Chinese - "mi" nearlyscreams "wo3" at me, and "ni3" seems an obvious choice for "sina",though it's composed of radical+phonetic, so may not be good for you.)
> I really don't like the Katakana system, simply cause I think it's
> too many symbols to learnEh. I think a syllabary would fit Toki Pona pretty well without beingtoo much to learn.There are only 50 katakana, after all, and you don't even need themall for Toki Pona; you had to learn more than that number to readEnglish: 26 small letters + 26 big letters - not to mention cursive,which is often shaped differently enough to have to be learnedseparately. And I remember in school having to learn that the shapewith two ovals connected by a line was the same "g" that I had learnedto hand-write as one circle with a tail: two separate shapes to learn,yet nominally the same letter "lower-case print letter G".Especially if you use a separate sign for syllable-final "n" (the onlyconsonant allowed syllable-finally in TP), you can get away with avery manageable number of characters if you allocate one for eachsyllable rather than one for each sound.
> I also think that many of the
> symbols are only different by one little dot or stroke.Well, yes, there is that. (Consider especially katakana "shi" \[si\] vs"tsu" \[tu\], or "u" vs "wa", or "so" vs "n".)
> I had another idea of adapting Arabic writing to TP, as well as
> looking into the hieroglyphic idea.That could work, though Arabic is generally a bad idea for otherlanguages since it doesn't have enough vowels - only three are marked,and those only by marks above and below the main writing which areoften left out.And you can't easily use e.g. alif, wa, and ya for vowels since you'dneed them for syllables beginning with a vowel, with w-, and with j-respectively.
> I also skimmed through the
> writing section of my book on Biblical Hebrew and thought about
> using that as well.\*nods\* Though again you have the vowel problem (vowels are marks aboveand below the letters), unless you adopt a Yiddish-style systems whichspells out vowels with separate letters (e.g. ayin for "e", aleph for"a" and "o"). But that has problems due to the shortage of letters:you need aleph and vav and yud again so you probably can't use them asvowels or \_matres lectionis\_ unless you want to introduce ambiguity.But with vowels marked with nikudot(?) above and below consonants, itcould work.
> I know it seems like a lot of different ideas running through my
> head, but I'm mainly doing this for myself because I love foreign
> languages and writing systemsSame here :)How about Tengwar? Armenian? Georgian? Greek?Have a look around [http://www.omniglot.com/](http://www.omniglot.com/) and see what scripts meetyour fancy! Since TP has such a simple phonology, many scripts couldprobably be pressed into service with a little imagination.Cheers,--
Philip Newton <[philip.newton@gmail.com](mailto://philip.newton@gmail.com)\
>