---
author: "Rick Miller"
date: 2007-10-05T21:40:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I'm taking this to [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com) instead of bugging Sonja.On 10/5/07, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

> Accurate descriptions of things are generally too long to be useful,
> or to fadge in conversation. So what is needed is a manageable
> phrase that picks out the right thing in context (or eventually
> by convention). And, if you find something that works,
> it does not even have to be all that accurate a description
> (witness most of the vocabulary of any natural language).
> To be sure, it is handy if something called 'AB' in tp is
> something that can be seen as a kind of A, but even
> that is not essential.No, no, no, no, no. It IS essential. That's my point. That's the WHOLE point.Do NOT make a code-book of "manageable phrases". Just use the wordsfor what they each mean. If you don't want to describe somethingfully, then obviously that amount of accuracy is \*not\* \*important\* sojust leave it off.You wouldn't say "The brown, white, and black short-haired strayhouse-cat walked across my path." You'd just say, "The cat walkedacross my path." Well, in Toki Pona you just do the same thing. Ifyou don't NEED to specify, then just don't.Coming up with code phrases, even if they make some sort of mnemonicsense, will spoil the main advantage of Toki Pona: it can cut throughthe crap and say what's really going on.Try this: Go through something you've written in Toki Pona and reduceevery substantive phrase and verb phrase to just their initial word.One word each. You should still be able to read the same generalmeaning from it.jan Wiko.