---
author: "MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com"
date: 2007-10-05T21:56:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
In a message dated 10/5/2007 7:58:21 PM Central Daylight Time, [clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net) writes:

> You wouldn't say "The brown, white, and black short-haired stray
> house-cat walked across my path."  You'd just say, "The cat walked
> across my path."  Well, in Toki Pona you just do the same thing.  If
> you don't NEED to specify, then just don't.But the issue, of course, is how to say 'cat' or any other specific thing.  You have two choices:invent a new word (or borrow it or whatever) or cobble something up out of the material at hand. tp does the latter and, to keep the whole thing manageable, it uses all manner of shortcuts --
inaccuracies, folk-lore, cute word pictures, whatever to make so.  And it works if peopleunderstand the first time and accept it to use the next time.  Sure, it is likely that theexpression for 'cat' starts out 'soweli,' but certainly not necessary, and maybe not even the bestidea. At the moment we have a couple of expressions for 'tooth' floating around: 'nena uta' and'walo uta.' Both seem to work pretty well, with no clear advantage to either --
 and, of course,there are other possibilities that have not been proposed, 'kiwen uta,' for example, which alsowould work.  Which of these --
 or what else --
 is the non-idiomatic one, the one that is literallycorrect and that points us in the right direction without fail?  I would say none of these is thatone --
 dropping down to just the first word would render most passages involved fairlyunintelligible or, at best, misleading, I think. I think the point is to use "soweli" after the animal has been identified (if necessary) as a particular kind of soweli (or whatever).jan Setepo / stevo