---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-10-06T00:56:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Rick Miller <[rdmiller3@gmail.com](mailto://rdmiller3@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> I'm taking this to [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com) instead of bugging Sonja.
>> On 10/5/07, John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> wrote:

> 
> Accurate descriptions of things are generally too long to be useful,
> 
> or to fadge in conversation. So what is needed is a manageable
> 
> phrase that picks out the right thing in context (or eventually
> 
> by convention). And, if you find something that works,
> 
> it does not even have to be all that accurate a description
> 
> (witness most of the vocabulary of any natural language).
> 
> To be sure, it is handy if something called 'AB' in tp is
> 
> something that can be seen as a kind of A, but even
> 
> that is not essential.
>> No, no, no, no, no. It IS essential. That's my point. That's the WHOLEpoint.
>> Do NOT make a code-book of "manageable phrases". Just use the words
> for what they each mean. If you don't want to describe something
> fully, then obviously that amount of accuracy is \*not\* \*important\* so
> just leave it off.
>> You wouldn't say "The brown, white, and black short-haired stray
> house-cat walked across my path." You'd just say, "The cat walked
> across my path." Well, in Toki Pona you just do the same thing. If
> you don't NEED to specify, then just don't.But the issue, of course, is how to say 'cat' or any other specific thing. Youhave two choices:invent a new word (or borrow it or whatever) or cobble something up out of thematerial at hand.tp does the latter and, to keep the whole thing manageable, it uses all mannerof shortcuts --
inaccuracies, folk-lore, cute word pictures, whatever to make so. And it worksif peopleunderstand the first time and accept it to use the next time. Sure, it islikely that theexpression for 'cat' starts out 'soweli,' but certainly not necessary, and maybenot even the bestidea. At the moment we have a couple of expressions for 'tooth' floating around:'nena uta' and'walo uta.' Both seem to work pretty well, with no clear advantage to either --
and, of course,there are other possibilities that have not been proposed, 'kiwen uta,' forexample, which alsowould work. Which of these --
 or what else --
 is the non-idiomatic one, the onethat is literallycorrect and that points us in the right direction without fail? I would saynone of these is thatone --
 dropping down to just the first word would render most passages involvedfairlyunintelligible or, at best, misleading, I think.
> Coming up with code phrases, even if they make some sort of mnemonic
> sense, will spoil the main advantage of Toki Pona: it can cut through
> the crap and say what's really going on.
>> Try this: Go through something you've written in Toki Pona and reduce
> every substantive phrase and verb phrase to just their initial word.
> One word each. You should still be able to read the same general
> meaning from it.
>> jan Wiko.
>