---
author: "Rob"
date: 2007-10-06T13:40:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), John E Clifford wrote:

> ---
 Rick Miller wrote:

>> 
> I'm taking this to [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com) instead of bugging Sonja.
> 
>> 
> On 10/5/07, John E Clifford wrote:

> 
> 
> Accurate descriptions of things are generally too long to beuseful,
> 
> 
> or to fadge in conversation. So what is needed is a manageable
> 
> 
> phrase that picks out the right thing in context (or eventually
> 
> 
> by convention). And, if you find something that works,
> 
> 
> it does not even have to be all that accurate a description
> 
> 
> (witness most of the vocabulary of any natural language).
> 
> 
> To be sure, it is handy if something called 'AB' in tp is
> 
> 
> something that can be seen as a kind of A, but even
> 
> 
> that is not essential.
> 
>> 
> No, no, no, no, no. It IS essential. That's my point. That'sthe WHOLE point.
> 
>> 
> Do NOT make a code-book of "manageable phrases". Just use the words
> 
> for what they each mean.<snip
>>> But the issue, of course, is how to say 'cat' or any other specificthing. You have two choices:
> invent a new word (or borrow it or whatever) or cobble something upout of the material at hand.
> tp does the latter and, to keep the whole thing manageable, it usesall manner of shortcuts --

> inaccuracies, folk-lore, cute word pictures, whatever to make so.And it works if people
> understand the first time and accept it to use the next time. Sure,it is likely that the
> expression for 'cat' starts out 'soweli,' but certainly notnecessary, and maybe not even the best
> idea. At the moment we have a couple of expressions for 'tooth'floating around: 'nena uta' and
> 'walo uta.' Both seem to work pretty well, with no clear advantageto either --
 and, of course,
> there are other possibilities that have not been proposed, 'kiwenuta,' for example, which also
> would work. Which of these --
 or what else --
 is the non-idiomaticone, the one that is literally
> correct and that points us in the right direction without fail? Iwould say none of these is that
> one --
 dropping down to just the first word would render mostpassages involved fairly
> unintelligible or, at best, misleading, I think.Given that toki pona is meant to rely much on context, can I suggestwhat I hope is a good compromise.Each word added to the right of an expression is meant to refine themeaning. Ideally, stripping away words from right-to-left, and one ata time, should leave an expression whose meaning can be a superset ofthe original expression:jan utala pona --

> good soldierjan utala --

> soldierjan --

> personA good soldier is a soldier, and a soldier is a person. Also, theindividual words are descriptive of the intended meaning.Let us consider walo uta and nena uta:walo uta --
 teethwalo --
 white-thingTeeth are white-things. Also, uta (mouth) and walo (white) are bothdescriptive of teeth.nena uta --
 teethnena --
 bumps (in this context, rather than hill or mountain)Teeth are bumps. Just calling them 'bumps' is vague and unhelpful inmost contexts, but at least they are bumps! And again, 'nena' and'uta' are both descriptive.I suggest rules, then, that for any expression in 'formal' speech: a) stripping away one word at a time renders an expression/ideathat can be a superset of original expression/idea, and b) each word in the expression can be descriptive/informativeabout the idea(Note I use 'can', not 'is', because there are of course many meaningsto each word.)Basically, we're asking the question: could the expression beconfusing to a person who knows toki pona grammar and the 118 officialwords, even if a context is provided too?If so, the expression surely is not to be considered formal toki pona.But here's the final important point: if the expression is adoptedanyway, it should still be acknowledged and referenced indictionaries, but marked as colloquial (with no pejorative intended).Such terms might be used in literature and online chat betweencommunity members, but might be avoided in news broadcasts ;-)jan Robert