---
author: "MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com"
date: 2006-11-29T05:03:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
In a message dated 11/28/2006 6:29:34 PM Central Standard Time, [clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net) writes:
Since we are asking questions today, let me ask again about when to use "e" and when to usemodification.  The difference between "tawa B" and "tawa e B" is pretty clear.  And from that, thecorresponding pair from "lon" falls into place. But now we have "sike e suno," which, by analogy,ought to mean "spin the sun (make the sun go around in a circle)," while "go around the sun" wouldbe "sike suno."  The guideline in the Lessons says that the object in the English is not affectedby the action and so is not strictly an object (does not take "e"), but there seem to be othercases where this guide does not apply.  I am regularly uncertain whether to use "e" or not andhave been, I think, inconsistent about it (though never called on either usage).Good question.  I expect I'll use "e" for any direct object not specifically used with "tawa" or "lon".  Those two cases seem to be exceptions.  I actually think of them as intransitive verbs followed by prepositional phrases in which the preposition is the same as the verb, and the repeated verb is deleted.  So, since other prepositions are kepeken (already odd, with "ilo"), poka, sama, and tan, maybe they'll act the same way.I wondered about "sike" as an intransitive verb, too, but thought it might mean just "spin, rotate".jan Setepo / stevo