---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2006-11-29T18:26:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Rick Miller <[rdmiller3@gmail.com](mailto://rdmiller3@gmail.com)\
> wrote:

> On 11/29/06, [MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com) <[MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com)\
>wrote:

> 
> In a message dated 11/29/2006 8:49:56 AM Central Standard Time,[rdmiller3@gmail.com](mailto://rdmiller3@gmail.com) writes:

> 
> "li sike e suno" == "circle the sun"
> 
> It's an action performed upon the sun.
> 
>> 
> I find this a very poor explanation, as the sun is not affected by the"action" and thus
> nothing is "performed upon" it.
> 
>> 
> I believe that "sun" here is a focus, not a patient. A patient experiencesthe state or
> action, whereas a focus does not.
>> Are you suggesting that only a "patient" can be a direct object and
> that a "focus" should not? What about these examples?:
> "I see you."
> "I miss you."
> "I hear you."
> "I understand you."The question is not about how these things are handled in English but about howthey are handledin tp. The bit about patients is, in fact, in the lessons somewhere. But,asnoted, it soes notseem to be followed consistently, nor is the English model. The question thenis, is there someway to tell what takes "e" and what is just a modifier (or, indeed, the "object"of apreposition)?
> Compare "mi lukin e sina" with "mi lukin tawa sina". Do I think I'm
> doing something to you by looking at you? or do I simply think that
> I'm doing some looking in your direction?
>> How I say it just depends how I'm thinking about it.Intweresting. What is the second of these supposed to mean if the first means"I am looking atyou" or (and is this different) "I see you."?