---
author: "bacchus13579"
date: 2002-12-02T01:07:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I often come up with random questions that I have about Toki Pona,but I can hardly ever remember. So, I decided to carry out a pen andsome paper for a few days, and these are the questions that came up:1. How would say the word for neck? ... Don't Toki Pona people havenecks? Or are they like lots of professional writers, who often seemto have almost no neck?...2. What is the best way to say "ear"? After all, there is a way tosay hair, eye, mouth, and nose. Why shouldn't there be a word for theonly remaining piece of the head, the ear? I came up with "nena kute"--
the extrusion for listening. Does anyone else have any thoughts?3. Another questions that came up: Would say that a person "has"someone? For example, does it really make sense to say, "I \*have\* amother." It makes it seem as if though perhaps you own your mother,as if she were a slave or something. Quenya does not allow you to saythat you \*have\* people, especially in reference to children. Anythoughts on this?4. This next concern has been bugging me for quite a while. Let'slook at the phrase "toki meli". This means "the woman's story". Butcould it not also mean "the story about the woman"? I think thatthese two are quite different, and the current system (assuming thatI understand it correctly) causes confusion.5. I already asked this question in a post not too long ago, but hereit is again: Is "kin la" still valid as meaning "and," as aconjunction used to connect two sentences? (For example: mi toki. kinla mi kute.) Should it perhaps be just "en" now?6. My final question is about making questions. I already know that abasic question is simply made by saying the word in question, ala,then the word again (as in "sina jan ala jan?" --
 "are you a person?")But what if the word that is in question has an adjective on it? Forexample, suppose that you're telling a friend about someone you met,then they say:Is that person (the person that you're talking about) the big woman?Would this be translated as "jan ni li meli suli ala meli suli?"And now a nice little quote of pona to end this post on a positivenote:"Love your life, as poor as it is. You may perhaps have somepleasant, thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poorhouse," by HenryDavid Thoreau.--
Pije