---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-09-27T12:50:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Matthew Martin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> wrote:

> Everyone will have to forgive my linguistic naivity here, I'm not a
> trained linguist and all.
>> Why is li a nominal marker and not a verb marker? For some reason my
> small brain has decided that "li" means "here comes the verb". When
> I hear "li", I never think "ah, that was the subject"Gee, I thought that was how it worked. That it introduces the predicate hasbeen cited in severalarguments (for "la" at the beginning of conditions and oddly for "la" as markingthe beginning ofthe subject and for a mark before prepositions). It also is repeated at thebeginning of eachpredicate in the conjoined sentences. I haven't looked at the ps g for a while;does it sayotherwise?
> Why does toki pona need a new verb category to deal with "lon/tawa"?
> For example, why the P11 say <Vx
> + <Noun-Phrase
> instead of a null
> copula or a transformation rule, like the following:
>> Why not a null copula rule? (I'm thinking of the pattern: ona li pona)
> mi mute li tawa mi tomo pali --

> replace tawa with nothing, and the
> prepositional phrase works like a predicate (modifies the subject,
> the same way pona modifies ona in "ona li pona")
>> Why not a transformational rule?
> mi mute li tawa tawa mi tomo pali --

> combine tawa/tawa into tawaWell, the notion of a null copula is slightly repugnant to grammar generally --
it is easier toallow that non-verbs can act as predicates in their own right, as here. Theverb + preposition isa real possibility, but it turns out to be more informative 9and easier to workwith) to eithertake "tawa" as a preposition acting as a predicate or to take the transitiveverb form as baiscand derive the preposition from it (see the earlier dictionary notes). Also, focourse, a phrasestructure grammar is inherently item-and-arrangement and so usesitem-and-process techniques liketransformations very sparingly (alas, since they are more useful semantically).
> mi tawa,
>> jan Matthew Martin
>> ---
 In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), MorphemeAddict@... wrote:

> 
>> 
> TOKI PONA PHRASE STRUCTURE GRAMMAR
> 
>> 
> \[\] = optional element; \* = element may be repeated.
> 
>> 
> Phrase Structure rules
> 
> P1 <Sentence
> ::= <Interjection
>> 
> | \[<PreSentence
>\] \[<Vocative
>\] <Subject
> <Predicate
>> 
> P2 <PreSentence
> ::= \["taso"\] <Sentence
> "la"
> 
> | \["taso"\] <Nominal
> "la"
> 
> P3 <Vocative
> ::= \[<Nominal
>\] "o"
> 
> P4 <Subject
> ::= "o"
> 
> | <Nominal
> "li"
> 
> P5 <Predicate
> ::= <Noun-Phrase
> \[<Prep-Phrase
>\*\]
> 
> | <Verb-Phrase
> \[<Prep-Phrase
>\]
> 
> | <Predicate
> <Predicate-Conjunction
> <Predicate
>> 
> P6 <Nominal
> ::= <Noun-Phrase
>> 
> | <Nominal
> <Nominal-Conjunction
> <Nominal
>> 
> P7 <Noun-Phrase
> ::= <Noun
> \[<Modifier
>\*\]
> 
> | <Noun-Phrase
> "pi" <Noun
> <Modifier
>\*
> 
> P8 <Verb-Phrase
> ::= <Verb
> \["ala" <Verb
>\]
> 
> | <Modal
> \["ala" <Modal
>\] <Verb
>> 
> (The verb or modal after "ala" is the same as the one
> before "ala".)
> 
> P9 <Direct-Object
> ::= "e" <Noun-Phrase
>> 
> P10 <Prep-Phrase
> ::= <Preposition
> <Nominal
>> 
> P11 <Verb
> ::= <Vi
> \[<Modifier
>\]\*
> 
> | <Vt
> \[<Modifier
>\]\* + <Direct-Object
>\*
> 
> | <Vx
> + <Noun-Phrase
>> 
> P12 <Modal
> ::= {"kama", "ken", "wile"}
> 
> P13 <Vi
> ::= see list.
> 
> P14 <Vt
> ::= see list.
> 
> P15 <Vx
> ::= {"lon", "tawa"}
> 
> P16 <Interjection
> ::= see list.
> 
> P17 <Predicate-Conjunction
> ::= see list.
> 
> P18 <Nominal-Conjunction
> ::= see list.
> 
> P19 <Noun
> ::= see list.
> 
> P20 <Modifier
> ::= see list.
> 
> P21 <Preposition
> ::= see list.
> 
>> 
> TRANSFORMATIONAL RULES
> 
> T1: If subject is "mi" or "sina" then delete immediately
> following "li".
> 
> T2: "o o" ::= "o" (Two "o" are reduced to one.)
> 
>> 
> Words used in the grammar itself: ala (P8), \*e (P9), \*la (P2), li
> (P4), o
> 
> (P3, P4), \*pi (P7), taso (P2). Words with an asterisk are not
> listed below.
> 
>> 
> Vocabulary by POS:
> 
> Nouns: akesi, ala, ale/ali, anpa, ante, ijo, ike, ilo, insa, jaki,
> jan, jo,
> 
> kala, kalama, kama, kasi, ken, kili, kiwen, ko, kon, kule, kulupu,
> lape, lawa,
> 
> len, lete, linja, lipu, luka, lupa, ma, mama, mani, meli, mi, mije,
> moku,
> 
> moli, monsi, mun, musi, mute, nanpa, nasin, nena, \[ni,\] nimi, noka,
> oko, olin,
> 
> ona, pakala, pali, palisa, pana, pilin, pimeja, pini, pipi, poka,
> poki, pona,
> 
> seli, selo, \[seme,\] sewi, sijelo, sike, sina, sinpin, sitelen,
> sona, soweli,
> 
> suli, suno, supa, suwi, tan, tawa, telo, tenpo, toki, tomo, tu,
> unpa, uta, utala,
> 
> walo, wan, waso, wawa, weka, wile
> 
>> 
> Modifiers: ala, ale/ali, anpa, ante, awen, ijo, ike, insa, jaki,
> jan, jelo,
> 
> kama, kin, kiwen, kon, kule, kute, kulupu, lape, laso, lawa, lete,
> lili, loje,
> 
> lukin, mama, meli, mi, mije, moli, monsi, mun, musi, mute, nasa,
> ni, olin,
> 
> ona, pali, pimeja, pini, poka, pona, sama, seli, \[seme,\] sewi,
> sike, sin, sina,
> 
> suli, suwi, taso, tawa, toki, tomo, tu, unpa, uta, walo, wan, wawa,
> weka, wile
> 
>> 
> Transitive Verbs: ante, awen, ijo, ike, jaki, jan, jo, kalama,
> kama, ken,
> 
> kepeken, kule, kute, lawa, lete, lili, lukin, moku, moli, musi,
> mute, nasa, olin,
> 
> open, pakala, pali, pana, pilin, pimeja, pini, pona, seli, \[sike,\]
> sin,
> 
> sitelen, sona, suli, suwi, tawa, telo, toki, tu, unpa, utala, wan,
> wawa, weka, wile
> 
>> 
>> 
> Intransitive Verbs: awen, ike, kalama, kama, ken, lape, lon, lukin,
> moli,
> 
> musi, pakala, pali, pilin, sona, tawa, toki, unpa
> 
>> 
> Interjections: a, ala, ike, jaki, mu, o, pakala, pona, toki
> 
>> 
> Nominal Conjunctions: anu, en
> 
>> 
> Predicate Conjunctions: anu, li
> 
>> 
> Prepositions: kepeken, lon, poka, sama, tan, tawa
> 
>> 
> Vocabulary by POS membership:
> 
> Noun: akesi, ilo, kala, kasi, kili, ko, len, linja, lipu, luka,
> lupa, ma,
> 
> mani, nanpa, nasin, nena, nimi, noka, oko, palisa, pipi, poki,
> selo, sijelo,
> 
> sinpin, soweli, suno, supa, tenpo, waso
> 
>> 
> Noun/Modifier: anpa, ale/ali, insa, kiwen, kon, kulupu, mama, meli,
> mi, mije,
> 
> monsi, mun,\[ ni,\] ona, \[seme,\] sewi, sike, sina, tomo, uta, walo
> 
>> 
> Noun/Modifier/Vt: ante, ijo, jan, kule, lawa, lete, mute, olin,
> pimeja, pini,
> 
> suli, suwi, tu, wan, wawa, weka, wile
> 
>> 
> Noun/Modifier/Vt/Vi: kama, moli, musi, pali, unpa
> 
>> 
> Noun/Modifier/Vt/Vi/Preposition: tawa
> 
>> 
> Noun/Modifier/Vt/Vi/Interjection: ike, toki
> 
>> 
> Noun/Modifier/Vt/Interjection: jaki, pona
> 
>> 
> Noun/Modifier/Vi: lape
> 
>> 
> Noun/Modifier/Interjection: ala
> 
>> 
> Noun/Modifier/Preposition: poka
> 
>> 
> Noun/Vt: jan, moku, pana, seli, sitelen, telo, utala
> 
>> 
> Noun/Vt/Vi: kalama, ken, pilin, sona
> 
>> 
> Noun/Vt/Vi/Interjection: pakala
> 
>> 
> Noun/Preposition: tan
> 
>> 
> Modifier: jelo, kin, laso, loje, seli, taso
> 
>> 
> Modifier/Vt: kute, lili, nasa,\[ open,\] sin
> 
>> 
> Modifier/Vt/Vi: awen, lukin
> 
>> 
> Modifier/Preposition: sama
> 
>> 
> Vt/Preposition: kepeken
> 
>> 
> Vi/Preposition: lon
> 
>> 
> Interjection: a, mu, o
> 
>> 
> Nominal Conjunctions: en
> 
>> 
> Nominal Conjunction/Predicate Conjunction: anu
> 
>> 
> Predicate Conjunctions: li
> 
>> 
> Problems with this grammar:
> 
>> 
> Some words can be used in parts of speech that are not documented
> in the
> 
> source materials. The words I know of are: ni (noun), open (mod?),
> sike (vt),
> 
> seme (noun, mod, verb?).
> 
>> 
> Toki Pona is very complex regarding the POS membership of its
> words. The
> 
> language has only 118 words, but those words are divided into 24
> varieties of
> 
> POS membership.
> 
>> 
> I suspect that many other words (besides ni, open, seme, sike) can
> be used in
> 
> parts of speech not documented in the sources, and also that the
> parts of
> 
> speech themselves are too narrow and specific. There may be only
> two real parts
> 
> of speech: content words and function words.
> 
>> 
> stevo
> 
>>>>