---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-09-27T17:12:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
\---
 Matthew Martin <[matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com)\
> wrote:

> toki!
>> Thanks, ike mi. I was looking at an old version that implied "li" followed
> nominal nouns. (And wikipedia has the old version too!)
>> As for viewing the world in terms of predicates ( subject + predicate) or
> null copulas ( subject + \[invisible "to be"\] + predicate)--
 I don't know.
>> Here is my wild guess of what a null copula rule looks like
> <Verb-Phrase
> ::= <Verb
> (/) <Predicate
>> <Verb-Phrase
> ::= <Verb
> 0 <Predicate
> (don't know how to make zero with a
> slash through it)
>> Since it is invisible, I can see why there would be some controversy about
> the idea in the first place (it's like ether! the invisible substance that
> replaces the verb "to be"!)This is the heart of the problem, though overcome if there is a big gain inefficiency by usingit. In tp, the notion that most words can turn up in most slots --
 andparticularly in thepredicate one --
 makes the copula unnecessary. We just go directly to "I to theoffice."
> I go to the office. Since "to" implies motion, I suppose it is redundant
> and in English could be dropped.
> I \[0\] to the office.
> I am at the office. At implies I am ("exist") there, so "am" is redundant
> in English and could be dropped.
> I \[0\] at the office."lon" meaning exist is not primary but arises when no place is given that athing is at, "ni lilon." Reality is the default place where things are.
> mi tawa tawa tomo pali . So it looks like the extra tawa could be dropped
> without loss of meaning
> mi tawa tomo pali. This is okay, I can live with this.
>> However, since tomo pali is \*not\* a modifier to a verb, what is it? It
> isn't taking "e", so it isn't the object. It isn't adverb--
 I don't
> office-ly go, I don't go "in the manner of an office"Well, I've been calling it a predicate complement, but at heart it is the objectof a preposition(which happens to be acting as a verb at the moment).
> Look at this: I drunkenly went to the office. Where am I going to put
> drunken so that it doesn't get mixed in with "the office"?This is a cute case, for which I don;t think there is a developed answer. However, based on someshaky analogies, I would think that the prepositional force of "tawa" shinesthrough the adverb(it shines thorugh "ala" after all).
> mi tawa nasa tawa tomo pali. Some how it just feels like I'm going to need
> to bring that extra tawa back to life or else I get this:
>> mi tawa nasa tomo pali.That is, this is probably right.Putting a "pi" in there doesn't help because I'd
> get
> \* mi tawa nasa pi tomo pali, which doesn't make any sense to me. (maybe I
> stagger in an office-like fashion?)Notice, that with "pi", which is a real possibility, the office "modifies" not"nasa" but "tawanasa." While this is a sort of solution, I think the bare form is better.
> Similar situation for dealing with "is at/exists at"
>> mi tawa nasa,
>> jan Matthew Martin
>>> On 9/27/07, [MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com) <[MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com](mailto://MorphemeAddict@wmconnect.com)\
>> wrote:

> 
>> 
> In a message dated 9/26/2007 2:43:09 PM Central Daylight Time,
> 
> [matt@suburbandestiny.com](mailto://matt@suburbandestiny.com) writes:

> 
>> 
>> 
> Why is li a nominal marker and not a verb marker? For some reason my
> 
> small brain has decided that "li" means "here comes the verb". When
> 
> I hear "li", I never think "ah, that was the subject"
> 
>> 
> Why does toki pona need a new verb category to deal with "lon/tawa"?
> 
> For example, why the P11 say <Vx
> + <Noun-Phrase
> instead of a null
> 
> copula or a transformation rule, like the following:
> 
>> 
> Why not a null copula rule? (I'm thinking of the pattern: ona li pona)
> 
> mi mute li tawa mi tomo pali --

> replace tawa with nothing, and the
> 
> prepositional phrase words like a predicate (modifies the subject,
> 
> the same way pona modifies ona in "ona li pona")
> 
>> 
> Why not a transformational rule?
> 
> mi mute li tawa tawa mi tomo pali --

> combine tawa/tawa into tawa
> 
>> 
> mi tawa,
> 
>> 
> jan Matthew Martin
> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> Here is the PS grammar again (also message 2313):
> 
>> 
> Phrase Structure rules
> 
> P1 <Sentence
> ::= <Interjection
>> 
> | <Verb
> \["ala"\]
> 
> | \[<PreSentence
>\] \[<Vocative
>\] <Subject
> <Predicate
>> 
> P2 <PreSentence
> ::= \["taso"\] <Sentence
> "la"
> 
> | \["taso"\] <Nominal
> "la"
> 
> P3 <Vocative
> ::= \[<Nominal
>\] "o"
> 
> P4 <Subject
> ::= "o"
> 
> | <Nominal
>> 
> | "o" <Nominal
>> 
> P5 <Predicate
> ::= "li" <Phrase
> \[<Prep-Phrase
>\*\]
> 
> | "li" <Predicate
> <Predicate-Conjunction
> <Predicate
>> 
> P6 <Phrase
> ::= <Noun-Phrase
> (1)
> 
> | <Modifier
>\* (1)
> 
> | <Verb-Phrase
>> 
> (1) = \["ala" + repeat of the entity immediately before it\], and may be
> 
> applied only once.
> 
> P7 <Nominal
> ::= <Noun-Phrase
>> 
> | <Nominal
> <Nominal-Conjunction
> <Nominal
>> 
> P8 <Verb-Phrase
> ::= <Verb
>> 
> | <Modal
> (1) <Verb
>> 
> (The verb or modal after "ala" is the same as the one before "ala".)
> 
> P9 <Prep-Phrase
> ::= <Preposition
> <Nominal
>> 
> P10 <Verb
> ::= <Vi
> (1) \[<Modifier
>\]\*
> 
> | <Vt
> (1) \[<Modifier
>\]\* + <Direct-Object
>\*
> 
> | <Vx
> (1) + <Noun-Phrase
>> 
> | "li" <Predicate
> <Predicate-Conjunction
> <Predicate
>> 
> P11 <Direct-Object
> ::= "e" <Noun-Phrase
>> 
> P12 <Noun-Phrase
> ::= <Noun
> \[<Modifier
>\*\]
> 
> | <Noun-Phrase
> "pi" <Nominal
>> 
> P13 <Modal
> ::= {"kama", "ken", "wile"}
> 
> P14 <Vi
> ::= see list.
> 
> P15 <Vt
> ::= see list.
> 
> P16 <Vx
> ::= {"lon", "tawa"}
> 
> P17 <Interjection
> ::= see list.
> 
> P18 <Predicate-Conjunction
> ::= see list.
> 
> P19 <Nominal-Conjunction
> ::= see list.
> 
> P20 <Noun
> ::= see list.
> 
> P21 <Modifier
> ::= <Name
>> 
> | see list.
> 
> P22 <Preposition
> ::= see list.
> 
> P23 <Name
> ::= \[C\] V \["n"\] + \[ CV \["n"\] \]\*
> 
> P24 <V
> ::= {"a" | "e" | "i" | "o" | "u"}
> 
> P25 <C
> ::= {"j" | "k" | "l" | "m" | "n" | "p" | "s" | "t" | "w"}
> 
> The combinations "ji", "ti", "wo", "wu", and "nn" do not occur.
> 
>> 
> TRANSFORMATIONAL RULES
> 
> T1: If subject is "mi" or "sina" then delete immediately following "li".
> 
> T2: "o o" ::= "o" (Two "o" are reduced to one; see P3 and P4.)
> 
>> 
>> 
> Rule 5 says "li" is followed by a phrase (i.e., a noun phrase or modifier
> 
> or verb phrase) or a sequence of predicates separated by conjunctions. This
> 
> is to accommodate sentences like "mi jan" ('I'm a person'. Without an
> 
> object "jan" is apparently not a verb here.)
> 
>> 
> P5 <Predicate
> ::= "li" <Phrase
> \[<Prep-Phrase
>\*\]
> 
> | "li" <Predicate
> <Predicate-Conjunction
> <Predicate
>> 
> P6 <Phrase
> ::= <Noun-Phrase
> (1)
> 
> | <Modifier
>\* (1)
> 
> | <Verb-Phrase
>> 
> (1) = \["ala" + repeat of the entity immediately before it\], and may be
> 
> applied only once.
> 
>> 
> Both of your suggestions are good. I didn't think of a null copula. What
> 
> would the rule look like?
> 
>> 
> I did think of a transformation for reducing "tawa tawa" and "lon lon",
> 
> but decided against it. I'm not sure why.
> 
>> 
> jan Setepo / stevo
> 
>> 
>> 
>>