---
author: "Jim Henry"
date: 2009-06-12T19:30:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
On Fri, Jun 12, 2009 at 1:29 PM, jan\_sewe<[serge.g@laposte.net](mailto://serge.g@laposte.net)\
> wrote:

> However I don't like long tp texts because I can't understand them. Youshouldn't try to compare tp with other languages that have more words.I don't think length of text in TP is a problem per se, so much astexts that try to convey ideas on a high level of abstraction forwhich TP is not very suitable.Kate's question arose from a thread where we were talking aboutwhat would be a challenging but attainable goal for writing in aconlang (or perhaps more generally, in a language one isn'tperfectly fluent in). National Novel Writing Month is a yearlyevent where amateur writers encourage one another while alltrying to accomplish a similar goal at the same time: writinga complete 50,000 word novel between November 1 andNovember 30. For most people, doing that in one's nativelanguage is a challenging but attainable goal. Doing 40,000or 30,000 words in another language one has near-nativefluency in would also be challenging but attainable. But whatwould be a reasonable goal for writing in a language onehas a much lower level of fluency in, or which is itself notentirely complete (so you will probably have to coin new wordsor work out grammatical issues while writing a text of anygreat length)?I suggest, rather than trying to write exactly 200 words inToki Pona (or whatever other conlang) and see how long ittakes, just write a text of whatever length, note the timeone starts and finishes, do a word count on the resultingtext, and do the math to see how many words per minuteone averaged. I'm fixing to do that with Toki Pona andmy own gzb.....OK, this 137-word vignette took me 306 seconds towrite in a quick off-the-cuff first draft, so about 27 wordsper minute.jan lili tu tu wan li lon. o lukin e ma ni: tomo pi kama sona pi janlili li lon. ma musi li lon tomo ni. tenpo suno mute la, jan lililli kama tawa ma musi ni li musi.jan Janu li toki e ni: "mi mute o musi e toki awen 'jan lawa pi sikeike'. mi jan Awakon.'jan Tami li toki e ni: "tenpo ali la sina jan Akawon! ni li pona alatawa mi. mi wile jan Awakan. sina o jan Falami."jan Lisa li toki e ni: "mi jan Ejowen. mi utala pona."jan Keti li toki e ni: "tenpo pini la sina jan Ejowen. mi jan Aliwen.jan Aliwen li wawa ala. tenpo ni la mi wile jan Ejowen."jan lili li toki utala li musi ala. ike a.---
Jim Henryhttp://[http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/](http://www.pobox.com/~jimhenry/)