---
author: "aljanga"
date: 2007-07-18T14:38:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I recently found toki pona on the Internet and have become veryinterested. The idea that it might alter our thought process isspecially appealing. Imagine my chagrin to discover the followingwebsite. Is there a forum watch to discourage this kind of thing?---------------------------------------------------------------
[http://bknight0.myweb.uga.edu/toki/text/tokisewi.htmltoki](http://bknight0.myweb.uga.edu/toki/text/tokisewi.htmltoki) sewi pi jan walo - Five Fundamental Beliefs of Creativitymi mute li sona e ni: kulupu jan li nasin sewi.We know that race is religion.mi mute li sona e ni: jan walo li pona mute. jan ante li ike.We know that white people are very good. Other people are evil.mi mute li sona e ni: jan li pona tawa jan walo la jan ni li ponamute. jan li pakala e jan walo la jan ni li ike mute.We know that if a person is good to the white people, that person isgood. If a person harms the white people, that person is very evil.mi mute li sona e ni: nasin li pona tawa jan walo la ona li ponamute. nasin li ike tawa jan walo la ona li ike mute.We know that if a path is good for the white people, it is theultimate good. If a path is bad for the white people, it is theultimate evil.mi mute li sona e ni: nasin pali li nasin sewi taso pi jan walo. onataso li ken sewi e jan walo.We know that Creativity is the only religion for the white people.Only it can raise the white people.mi mute li wile sewi. mi mute li pali tan ni.utala sewi pi kulupu jan a!We must be victorious. We work because of this.O holy war of the races!------------------------------------------------------------------
mi olin soweliToronto