---
author: "B. J. Knight"
date: 2007-07-19T11:43:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
Hey, everyone.Yes, I translated one of the texts that followers of the CreativityMovement believe in.How is this "misuse of Toki Pona"? Toki Pona is a language. Itexpresses ideas. Unlike most languages, however, it is mostly equippedonly to speak of relatively simple concepts. Fortunately, the textthat I translated doesn't have any particularly complex ideas in it,so I wouldn't consider it a "misuse of Toki Pona." A "misuse of TokiPona" would be, for example, trying to translate the US Constitution; it is very complex and would not be appropriate for Toki Pona. At anyrate, if you'd like to question my decision to translate such a text,that's fine, but calling it a "misuse of Toki Pona" is undeserved.I decided to translate the text several years ago about the time thatMatthew Hale went on trial. [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matthew_F._HaleAlthough](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matthew_F._HaleAlthough) I'm certainly no fan of Hale's "religious" beliefs, I believethat he is a victim of America's justice system. The evidence againstHale was obtained by police entrapment, and even then the evidenceagainst him was very weak, and he was still convicted and sent to avery long prison term in an extremely high-security prison. I believethat he has suffered a miscarriage of justice. To show my solidarityand hope that Hale may someday have justice and be set free, I thoughtit would be interesting to translate one of the texts that Hale holdsdear. Again, I wanted to show solidarity with Hale; I do not believethe tenets of the text itself.This isn't the first time I've been criticized for my decision tooppose the injustice of Hale's trial. For a while, I put a "Free MattHale" banner on the front page of my Toki Pona site. I had some nastycomments directed at me as a result, but I didn't take the banner downuntil I felt that it was time.I feel that opposing injustices in America's court system isimportant. Last year, I opposed what was being done to the Dukelacrosse players.[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2006_Duke_University_lacrosse_team_scandalPeople](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2006_Duke_University_lacrosse_team_scandalPeople) who supported the players in the beginning were accused ofbeing wannabe-rapists, racists, and many other things. However, wefinally found justice, and the young men were finally declared"innocent" (not simply "not guilty," but truly "innocent").So now you know why I translated the text: to show solidarity with the victim of what I believe was an injustice by US courts. I have nointentions of removing the text until I feel comfortable doing so.However, if you'd like to know, I'm currently reworking the religioustexts page, and I already had to plans to remove the racist text onceI finish the new version of the page.The new version of the page will have a translation of Jesus' Sermonon the Mount. I think it is quite nice, and I hope everyone will enjoyit. I will make a post when the new version of the page is done,although it may be a while because I haven't been in any particular hurry.Anyone who wishes to criticize and/or insult me for the Creativitytranslation, you may do so here or by emailing me directly. My emailaddress can be found at [http://bknight0.myweb.uga.edu/toki/me/contact.htmlmi](http://bknight0.myweb.uga.edu/toki/me/contact.htmlmi) tawa!Pije- In [tokipona@yahoogroups.com](mailto://tokipona@yahoogroups.com), John E Clifford <clifford-j@...
> wrote:

>> ante la toki ni li wan pi lipu pi toki suli pi nasin sewi mute. janala li ken pilin e ali ni,
> tan ni la jan pi sitelen ni li ken pilin ala e toki ni. kin la onali sona ala tan ni: ona li
> sitelen e toki ni.
> ---
 John E Clifford <clifford-j@...
> wrote:

>> 
> lon la toki ni li jaki mute. toki ni li toki e ijo ni: jan ala liwile toki e ijo ni. mi wile
> 
> e
> 
> pona ni: jan suli pi toki pona li sitelen ala e toki ni. taso janwan taso li sitelen e toki
> 
> ni.
> 
> kulupu pi toki pona li sitelen ala e ona, mi wile e pona ni:kulupu pi toki pona li toki e nimi
> 
> ni: mi mute li pilin ala sama toki ni.
> 
> ---
 aljanga <aljager@...
> wrote:

> 
>> 
> 
> I recently found toki pona on the Internet and have become very
> 
> 
> interested. The idea that it might alter our thought process is
> 
> 
> specially appealing. Imagine my chagrin to discover the following
> 
> 
> website. Is there a forum watch to discourage this kind of thing?
> 
> 
> ---------------------------------------------------------------

> 
> 
>> 
> 
> [http://bknight0.myweb.uga.edu/toki/text/tokisewi.html](http://bknight0.myweb.uga.edu/toki/text/tokisewi.html)\
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> toki sewi pi jan walo - Five Fundamental Beliefs of Creativity
> 
> 
> mi mute li sona e ni: kulupu jan li nasin sewi.
> 
> 
> We know that race is religion.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> mi mute li sona e ni: jan walo li pona mute. jan ante li ike.
> 
> 
> We know that white people are very good. Other people are evil.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> mi mute li sona e ni: jan li pona tawa jan walo la jan ni li pona
> 
> 
> mute. jan li pakala e jan walo la jan ni li ike mute.
> 
> 
> We know that if a person is good to the white people, thatperson is
> 
> 
> good. If a person harms the white people, that person is very evil.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> mi mute li sona e ni: nasin li pona tawa jan walo la ona li pona
> 
> 
> mute. nasin li ike tawa jan walo la ona li ike mute.
> 
> 
> We know that if a path is good for the white people, it is the
> 
> 
> ultimate good. If a path is bad for the white people, it is the
> 
> 
> ultimate evil.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> mi mute li sona e ni: nasin pali li nasin sewi taso pi jan walo.ona
> 
> 
> taso li ken sewi e jan walo.
> 
> 
> We know that Creativity is the only religion for the white people.
> 
> 
> Only it can raise the white people.
> 
> 
>> 
> 
> mi mute li wile sewi. mi mute li pali tan ni.
> 
> 
> utala sewi pi kulupu jan a!
> 
> 
> We must be victorious. We work because of this.
> 
> 
> O holy war of the races!
> 
> 
> ------------------------------------------------------------------

> 
> 
>> 
> 
> mi olin soweli
> 
> 
> Toronto
> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
> 
>> 
>> 
>>