---
author: "Helmut Voigt"
date: 2007-08-22T07:17:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
kulupu nimi "The closing might better be "mi kama pi open ala e lupa" " li ike tawa mi tan ni: nimi "kama" li nimi pali. ona li ken ala kepeken e nimi "pi". mi pilin e ni: "mi kama e ni: lupa li open ala" li "I close(d) the door" lon toki Inli. (lon) nasin sama la "mi open ala e lupa" li "I didn't open the door" lon toki Inli. jan ElumutuJohn E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> schrieb: ---
 galactonerd <[galactonerd@yahoo.com](mailto://galactonerd@yahoo.com)\
>wrote:

> I had a thought.
> 
> Some languages treat the subjects of intranitive verbs and the 
> objects of transitive verbs the same, while making the subjects of 
> transitive verbs a separate case. These are called "ergative-
> absolutive languages," or just "ergative" for short. I talked with 
> someone who was learning such a language, and he said, "I think of it 
> as being 'because of;' instead of 'you teach me,' it's 'because of 
> you, I learn.'"
> 
> I imagine we could do this in Toki Pona using "tan." Why would we do 
> this? Well, we could say a lot of things that are otherwise 
> difficult to say.
> 
> mi open e lupa tomo. --

> tan mi, lupa tomo li open. I opened the 
> door.
> 
> Not very different, but with this construction, we could talk about 
> closing a door:
> 
> tan mi, lupa tomo li open ala. I closed the door.
>tan mi ala, lupa tomo li open ala. I didn't close the door (but 
> someone did).
> 
> Then we could construct the causative:
> 
> tan sina, mi open e lupa tomo. You made me open the door.
> 
> There's a lot we could do without adding any new words or grammar, 
> just by using "tan." What do you all think?
> 
> jan Sosuwa
> Cute, but I don't see any advantage to it as a regular thing. tp already has a number ofcausative constructions. Aha! It does allow the distinction between "I closed the door" and "Idid not open the door," both of which might be thought of as "mi open ala e lupa" (screed aboutlack of dsitinctive word negation here). The closing might better be "mi kama pi open ala e lupa"(the other version of not opening would be "mi kama open ala e lupa"). I suppose that thelocutions you suggest could be used as available alternatives (though I am not sure that takingtheabsolutive as "because of" or "tan" is entirely justified). Wissenswertes zum Thema PC, Zubehör oder Programme.BE A BETTER INTERNET-GURU!