---
author: "John E Clifford"
date: 2007-08-22T14:06:00+00:00
nestinglevel: 0
---
I thought it had been establsihed that "pi" was a general right grouper, notjust for joing nounphrases. It has been used this way before, surely. (If it can't be use dthisway then we areconfronted with a really inelegant spot in the language.)---
 Helmut Voigt <[akesi_palisa@yahoo.de](mailto://akesi_palisa@yahoo.de)\
> wrote:

> kulupu nimi "The closing might better be "mi kama pi open ala e lupa" " li iketawa mi tan ni:
> nimi "kama" li nimi pali. ona li ken ala kepeken e nimi "pi". mi pilin e ni:"mi kama e ni: lupa
> li open ala" li "I close(d) the door" lon toki Inli. (lon) nasin sama la "miopen ala e lupa" li
> "I didn't open the door" lon toki Inli.
> jan Elumutu
>>> John E Clifford <[clifford-j@sbcglobal.net](mailto://clifford-j@sbcglobal.net)\
> schrieb:
>> ---
 galactonerd <[galactonerd@yahoo.com](mailto://galactonerd@yahoo.com)\
> wrote:

>> 
> I had a thought.
> 
>> 
> Some languages treat the subjects of intranitive verbs and the
> 
> objects of transitive verbs the same, while making the subjects of
> 
> transitive verbs a separate case. These are called "ergative-
> 
> absolutive languages," or just "ergative" for short. I talked with
> 
> someone who was learning such a language, and he said, "I think of it
> 
> as being 'because of;' instead of 'you teach me,' it's 'because of
> 
> you, I learn.'"
> 
>> 
> I imagine we could do this in Toki Pona using "tan." Why would we do
> 
> this? Well, we could say a lot of things that are otherwise
> 
> difficult to say.
> 
>> 
> mi open e lupa tomo. --

> tan mi, lupa tomo li open. I opened the
> 
> door.
> 
>> 
> Not very different, but with this construction, we could talk about
> 
> closing a door:
> 
>> 
> tan mi, lupa tomo li open ala. I closed the door.
> 
> tan mi ala, lupa tomo li open ala. I didn't close the door (but
> 
> someone did).
> 
>> 
> Then we could construct the causative:
> 
>> 
> tan sina, mi open e lupa tomo. You made me open the door.
> 
>> 
> There's a lot we could do without adding any new words or grammar,
> 
> just by using "tan." What do you all think?
> 
>> 
> jan Sosuwa
> 
>> Cute, but I don't see any advantage to it as a regular thing. tp already has anumber of
> causative constructions. Aha! It does allow the distinction between "I closedthe door" and "I
> did not open the door," both of which might be thought of as "mi open ala elupa" (screed about
> lack of dsitinctive word negation here). The closing might better be "mi kamapi open ala e
> lupa"
> (the other version of not opening would be "mi kama open ala e lupa"). Isuppose that the
> locutions you suggest could be used as available alternatives (though I am notsure that taking
> the absolutive as "because of" or "tan" is entirely justified).
>>>>>>> ---------------------------------

> Wissenswertes zum Thema PC, Zubehör oder Programme.BE A BETTER INTERNET-GURU!