---
author: "Liogab11"
date: 2009-04-01T13:12:42+00:00
nestinglevel: 1
---
Huh? I don't understand why the word has to be sooooooooooooo long.  
  
\--- On Wed, 1/4/09, Sonja Elen Kisa <\*\*\*@kisa.ca> wrote:  
From: Sonja Elen Kisa <\*\*\*@kisa.ca>  
Subject: \[tokipona\] New official word / Nova oficiala vorto  
To: \*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
Date: Wednesday, 1 April, 2009, 7:29 PM  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
\--English--  
  
  
  
I have been working full-time on the book since December 2008. Things are advancing well. Many of you have been asking me if there will be any other new words besides pan and esun.  
  
  
  
Although some of the new words I am considering are still in the testing phase, I can safely say that one word that has made the cut is "kijetesantakalu" , a noun for any animal from the Procyonidae family, such as raccoons, coatis, kinkajous, olingos, ringtails and cacomistles. I took it from the Finnish word kierteish채nt채karhu, meaning kinkajou.  
  
  
  
(I may decide to include the red panda under kijetesantakalu, but I still haven't decided that detail yet.)  
  
  
  
Sonja  
  
Creator of Toki Pona  
  
  
  
\--Esperanto- -  
  
  
  
Mi laboras plentempe pri la libro de post decembro 2008. Chio progresas bone. Multaj el vi demandis min, chu estos aliaj novaj vortoj krom pan kaj esun.  
  
  
  
Kvankam kelkaj el la novaj vortoj, kiujn mi pripensas aldoni, estas ankorau en prova fazo, mi kapablas firme anonci ke unu nova vorto, kiun mi aldonos, estas "kijetesantakalu" , substantivo por iu ajn besto de la familio de procionedoj, ekzemple prociono, nasuo, potoso, basariciono, basarisko kaj . Mi prenis ghin de la finna vorto kierteish채nt채karhu, kiu signifas potoson (Potos flavus).  
  
  
  
(Mi eble inkluzivos ankau la rughan pandon en kijetesantakalu, sed mi ankorau ne findecidis pri tiu detalo.)  
  
  
  
Sonja  
  
Kreinto de Tokipono  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
New Email addresses available on Yahoo!  
Get the Email name you&#39;ve always wanted on the new @ymail and @rocketmail.  
Hurry before someone else does!  
http://mail.promotions.yahoo.com/newdomains/aa/  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]