---
author: "Alexandre Baudry"
date: 2009-04-01 12:10:54 UTC
nestinglevel: 1
---
Dear Sonja,  
  
That's a great idea, but if you do so, you need also to add a special word for the Platypus (Ornithorhynchus anatinus). I would suggest the word "sutopatikuna" from the croatian word Èudnovati kljuna¹.  
  
Bonega ideo, sed se vi farus tion, vi devus ankaux aldoni apartan vorton por la Ornitorinko (Ornithorhynchus anatinus). Mi proponus la vorton "sutopatikuna" prenita de la kroatan vorton Èudnovati kljuna¹.  
  
  
:P,  

> Date: Wed, 1 Apr 2009 11:29:44 +0000  
> Subject: \[tokipona\] New official word / Nova oficiala vorto  
> \--English--  
> I have been working full-time on the book since December 2008. Things are advancing well. Many of you have been asking me if there will be any other new words besides pan and esun.  
> Although some of the new words I am considering are still in the testing phase, I can safely say that one word that has made the cut is "kijetesantakalu", a noun for any animal from the Procyonidae family, such as raccoons, coatis, kinkajous, olingos, ringtails and cacomistles. I took it from the Finnish word kierteishäntäkarhu, meaning kinkajou.  
> (I may decide to include the red panda under kijetesantakalu, but I still haven't decided that detail yet.)  
> Sonja  
> Creator of Toki Pona  
> \--Esperanto--  
> Mi laboras plentempe pri la libro de post decembro 2008. Chio progresas bone. Multaj el vi demandis min, chu estos aliaj novaj vortoj krom pan kaj esun.  
> Kvankam kelkaj el la novaj vortoj, kiujn mi pripensas aldoni, estas ankorau en prova fazo, mi kapablas firme anonci ke unu nova vorto, kiun mi aldonos, estas "kijetesantakalu", substantivo por iu ajn besto de la familio de procionedoj, ekzemple prociono, nasuo, potoso, basariciono, basarisko kaj . Mi prenis ghin de la finna vorto kierteishäntäkarhu, kiu signifas potoson (Potos flavus).  
> (Mi eble inkluzivos ankau la rughan pandon en kijetesantakalu, sed mi ankorau ne findecidis pri tiu detalo.)  
> Sonja  
> Kreinto de Tokipono  
> \------------------------------------  
> Yahoo! Groups Links  
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Inédit ! Des Emoticônes Déjantées! Installez les dans votre Messenger !  
http://www.ilovemessenger.fr/Emoticones/EmoticonesDejantees.aspx  
  
\[Non-text portions of this message have been removed\]  
  
  
  
\------------------------------------  
  
Yahoo! Groups Links  
  
<\*> To visit your group on the web, go to:  
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/tokipona/  
  
<\*> Your email settings:  
Individual Email | Traditional  
  
<\*> To change settings online go to:  
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/tokipona/join  
(Yahoo! ID required)  
  
<\*> To change settings via email:  
mailto:tokipona-\*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
mailto:tokipona-\*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
  
<\*> To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:  
tokipona-\*\*\*@yahoogroups.com  
  
<\*> Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to:  
http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/